quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company's financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk. the company operates subsidiaries in 13 foreign countries and transacts business in local currencies. the company attempts to hedge its cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. the primary purpose of the company's foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. the company primarily utilizes forward exchange contracts and options with a duration of less than 12 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. page 16 based on the company's overall currency rate exposure at december 31, 2000, including derivative and other foreign currency sensitive instruments, a 5% change in exchange rate balances denominated in foreign currencies which is not the functional currency would not have a material impact on the results of operation. however, the effects of a 5% change in exchange rates, if not offset by hedge contracts or related price adjustments would have a material impact on the results of operations. in june 1998, the fasb issued sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities ("sfas no. 133"). sfas no. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities and requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. sfas no. 137, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities - deferral of the effective date of fasb statement no. 133 - an amendment of fasb statement no. 133 was issued in june 1999 and deferred the effective date of sfas no. 133 to fiscal years beginning after june 15, 2000 and is applicable on both an interim and annual basis. companies are not required to apply this statement retroactively to prior periods. the company does not believe this statement will have a material impact on the consolidated balance sheet or statement of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk. we operate subsidiaries in 13 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts and options with a duration of less than 12 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. based on our overall currency rate exposure at december 31, 2001, including derivative and other foreign currency sensitive instruments, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rates will reduce operating income by approximately $0.5 million and a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar exchange rates will increase operating income by approximately $0.5 million. the effects of a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rates, if not offset by hedge contracts or related price adjustments, would reduce operating income by approximately $5.7 million and the effects of a 10% weakening of u.s. dollar exchange rates, if not offset by hedge contracts or related price adjustments, would increase operating income by approximately $5.7 million.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk. we operate subsidiaries in 13 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. 25 the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts and options with a duration of less than 12 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. as of december 31, 2002, the company had $2.6 million in unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges. based on our overall currency rate exposure at december 31, 2002, including local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or its subsidiaries functional currency, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies will reduce operating income by approximately $5.3 million and a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies will reduce operating income by approximately $0.4 million. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $7.4 million and the effects of a 10% weakening of u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase operating income by approximately $7.4 million.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk. we operate subsidiaries in 16 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. see note 2(m) to our consolidated financial statements. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with a duration of less than 18 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or accruals and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods. our hedging strategy provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following twelve months. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. as of december 31, 2004, the company had $2.9 million in unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $1.5 million in taxes. our currency rate exposure at december 31, 2004 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or its subsidiaries functional currency. based on our overall currency rate exposure, excluding unrealized losses of $4.3 million at december 31, 2004 and $4.4 million at december 31, 2003, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies would reduce operating income by approximately $2.3 million for 2005. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2003 would have reduced operating income for 2004 by approximately $2.2 million. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies at december 31, 2004 would increase operating income by approximately $2.3 million in 2005. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2003 would have increased operating income by approximately $2.2 million in 2004. as of december 31, 2004, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $9.3 million in 2005, compared to $8.1 million in 2004, and the effects of a 10% weakening of u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase operating income by approximately $9.3 million in 2005 compared to $8.1 million in 2004.risk factors. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was filed with the securities and exchange commission and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our views change. part i. item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services for the veterinary and the food and water testing markets. our products and services include: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising rapid assays and instruments and consumables; laboratory and consulting services used by veterinarians; veterinary pharmaceutical products; information products and services and digital radiography systems for veterinarians; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for production animals; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and products that test milk for antibiotic residues. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-856-0300, and our internet address is idexx.com. references herein to we, us; the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the otherwise requires. references to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. 2 products and services we operate primarily through three business segments: products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as our companion animal group ( cag ), water quality products ( water ) and products for production animal health and dairy quality, which we refer to as the food diagnostics group ( fdg ). see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2005 included in this form 10-k for financial information about our business segments, including geographic information, and about our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market several instrument systems, as well as associated consumable products, for use in veterinary clinics. these instruments, which we refer to collectively as the idexx vetlab&reg;, are described below. blood and urine chemistry . our vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer is used to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine in order to assist the veterinarian in diagnosing physiologic conditions. twenty-four separate tests can be performed on the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer and additional parameters can be calculated. blood tests commonly run include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, bun (blood urea nitrogen) and total protein. the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer also runs tests for urine protein/urine creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels, such as the preanesthetic panel, the general health profile, the equine panel, the nsaid ( nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ) monitoring panel and the quality control panel. we purchase all of the reagents used in the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer ( dry chemistry slides or vettest &reg; slides ) from ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson. see business-production and supply. in october 2003, we entered into an agreement with ortho under which we are developing a next-generation chemistry analyzer for the veterinary market based on ortho dry-slide technology, and ortho will supply the slide consumables used in both the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer and the new analyzer through 2020. we do not expect this new instrument to be commercially available before the latter part of 2007. hematology . we sell two hematology analyzers: the lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets; and the vetautoread hematology analyzer. electrolytes and blood gases . our vetlyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. we purchase our vetlyte &reg; electrolyte analyzers and consumables from roche diagnostics corporation. our vetstat analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as bicarbonate and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. we purchase all of our vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and consumables from osmetech, inc. quantitative immunoassay testing . the idexx snap reader allows the veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurements of total thyroxine (t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids. these measurements assist in diagnosing and monitoring the treatment of certain endocrine diseases, such as hyper- and hypothyroidism, cushing syndrome and addison disease. samples and reagents are introduced to the analyzer using our snap platform. rapid assays we provide a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits that allow quick, accurate and convenient test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these products enable veterinarians to provide improved service to animal owners by delivering test results and a diagnosis at the time of the patient visit, allowing the veterinarian to initiate therapy or prevention, if required. 3 our principal single-use tests are sold under the snap &reg; name, and include a feline combination test, the snap &reg; combo fiv antibody/felv antigen test, which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus) and feline leukemia virus ( felv ); a canine combination test, the snap &reg; 3dx &reg; , which tests simultaneously for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and heartworm; a canine heartworm-only test; a canine test for parvovirus; a feline test for felv only; and canine and feline tests for giardia, a parasitic disease. sales of heartworm tests are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of the disease. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits, under the petchek &reg; name, that are used by larger clinics and laboratories to test multiple samples. petchek &reg; tests offer accuracy, ease of use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. we currently sell petchek &reg; tests for canine heartworm disease, fiv, and felv. veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., europe, australia and japan. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in production and companion animals. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including cardiology, radiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services permit veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet from the veterinarians offices. practice information management and digital radiography systems practice information management systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information management systems ( pims ) including hardware and software that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including patient electronic health records management, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), billing and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone&reg; system. we believe we are one of the leading providers of veterinary practice information management systems in north america, with an installed base of more than 7,200 of the approximately 28,000 veterinary hospitals in north america. we also provide software and hardware support to our pims customers, and related supplies and services to veterinarian pims users in general, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement through contrast management. we market and sell the idexx digital radiography system, which is appropriate for use in the small animal veterinary clinic, and two systems that are primarily used as portable units in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices: the idexx equiview digital radiography system and the idexx digital radiography compact system. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the idexx-pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone &reg; system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. pharmaceutical products we develop, market and sell therapeutics for the veterinary market. we currently market and sell four pharmaceutical products: pzi vet &reg; , an insulin product for the treatment of diabetic cats; acarexx &reg; (.01% ivermectin) otic suspension for the treatment of ear mites in cats; surpass &reg; (1% diclofenac sodium), a topical, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug for equine use; and navigator &reg; (32% nitazoxanide) antiprotozoal oral paste, a treatment for equine protozoal myeloencephalitis (epm). we are developing a long-acting, injectable form of the antibiotic tilmicosin for cats. 4 water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological analytes in water. our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18 and colisure &reg; tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert product detects enterococci in drinking and recreational waters. our quanti-tray &reg; products, when used in conjunction with our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; or enterolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert &reg; , colilert-18 &reg; , colisure &reg; and quanti-tray &reg; products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. our filta-max &reg; product is used in the detection of cryptosporidia in water. cryptosporidia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. testing of water supplies for cryptosporidia is mandated by regulation in the united kingdom, but is not regulated in other countries at this time. food diagnostics group production animal services we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation and software that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in production animals. our production animal products are purchased primarily by government laboratories and poultry and swine producers. significant products include diagnostic tests for porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome and pseudorabies virus in pigs; newcastle disease in poultry; and johne disease, bovine viral diarrhea virus, and brucellosis in cattle. in december 2004, we completed the acquisition of dr. bommeli ag, a swiss manufacturer of production animal tests, for cash consideration of approximately $15.8 million, net of cash acquired. we have developed a postmortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ). this test was approved for use in the u.s. by the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) in 2004 and for use in the european union ( eu ) by the european commission in february 2005. we also offer a related kit for the detection of a similar disease, scrapie, in small ruminants, including sheep. testing for bse in the u.s. is limited and we do not know when or if the usda will expand its testing program, which would increase the domestic market for these tests. dairy testing our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap &reg; beta-lactam test. dairy producers and processors use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk, and government and food-quality managers use them for ongoing surveillance. in march 2003, we entered into an agreement with the fda under which we agreed, among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability testing of our snap &reg; beta-lactam products and to provide related data to the fda. if the fda were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the fda could take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting our ability to sell these products. sales of dairy antibiotic residue testing products were $15.6 million in 2005. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. in 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent $102.0 million, $85.7 million, and $71.8 million or 16%, 16%, and 15% of sales, respectively, on sales and marketing. 5 generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our veterinary diagnostic and pharmaceutical products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and test kits, pharmaceutical products and instrument consumables supplied primarily by the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our veterinary diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our reference laboratory services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software products through our direct sales force primarily in the u.s. we market our water and food diagnostics products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. in 2005, two of our cag distributors, the butler company and burns veterinary supply, inc., merged and, as a result, they collectively accounted for 10% of our 2005 revenue and 4% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2005. in 2004 and 2003, no customer accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. the largest consumer of our products and services accounts for approximately 1% of our sales. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may involve entry into new business areas. our research and development activity is focused primarily on development of new diagnostic instrument platforms and information systems, new immunoassay devices, new diagnostic tests, new animal drugs, enhanced practice information systems, and improvements in the performance, connectivity and interoperability of our products and services. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were approximately $40.9 million, $35.4 million and $32.3 million, or 6%, 6% and 7% of sales, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. these licenses include an exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents relating to diagnostic products for fiv that expire in 2009, from the regents of the university of california; and exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to certain patents and patent applications expiring beginning in 2019 that relate to the detection of lyme disease. we also have an exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents expiring in 2007 relating to defined substrate technology ( dst ) that is utilized in the colilert &reg; , colilert-18 &reg; , colisure &reg; and enterolert water-testing products, although we do not believe the expiration of the dst patents in 2007 will have a material effect on our water business. in addition, we hold a u.s. patent expiring in 2014 that specifically covers the colilert&reg;-18 product and another patent expiring in 2014 that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, and which covers certain of our snap &reg; products, including our snap &reg; combo fiv/felv and canine snap &reg; 3dx &reg; combination tests. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 6 production and supply vettest &reg; chemistry analyzers are manufactured for us by tokyo parts industrial company, ltd. under an agreement that renews annually unless either party notifies the other of its decision not to renew. vettest &reg; slides are supplied exclusively by ortho under supply agreements with ortho (the ortho agreements ). we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest &reg; slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. in addition, we have committed to minimum annual purchase volumes of certain vettest &reg; slides through 2010. the ortho agreements expire on december 31, 2020. the vetautoread hematology analyzer is manufactured for us by qbc diagnostics, inc. ( qbcd ) under a supply agreement that expires on december 31, 2020. the vetlyte &reg; electrolyte analyzer is manufactured for us by roche diagnostics corporation under an agreement that requires roche diagnostics to supply analyzers through december 31, 2006, and consumables and spare parts through december 31, 2013. the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer is manufactured for us by osmetech, inc. under an agreement that requires osmetech to supply analyzers and consumables through 2015 and we have an option to extend this agreement for an additional four years. we have certain minimum purchase obligations under these agreements. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from a single supplier. these include active ingredients for our pharmaceutical products, certain digital radiography systems, instrument consumables, and certain components used in our snap &reg; rapid assay devices, water testing products and lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzers. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from small businesses focused on animal health to large pharmaceutical companies. our competitors vary in our different markets. academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. some of our competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic products and food and water testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. veterinary laboratory and consulting services . in this market, we compete primarily on the basis of quality, service, technology, and our pricing relative to the value of our services. we compete in certain geographic locations in the u.s. with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. veterinary pharmaceuticals . we compete primarily on the basis of the performance characteristics of our products. practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. 7 government regulation many of our products are subject to regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . most diagnostic tests for animal health applications are veterinary biological products that are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the usda animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and memphis, tennessee. our instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by fda and does not subject us to the fda good manufacturing practices regulations ( gmps ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. veterinary pharmaceuticals . the manufacture and sale of veterinary pharmaceuticals are regulated by the center for veterinary medicine ( cvm ) of the fda. a new animal drug may not be commercially marketed in the u.s. unless it has been approved as safe and effective by cvm. approval may be requested by filing an nada with cvm containing substantial evidence as to the safety and effectiveness of the drug. data regarding manufacturing methods and controls also are required to be submitted with the nada. manufacturers of animal drugs must also comply with gmps and good laboratory practices ( glps ). sales of animal drugs in countries outside the u.s. require compliance with the laws of those countries, which may be extensive. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water-quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert&reg;, colilert&reg;-18, colisure&reg;, quanti-tray&reg;, filta-max&reg; and simplate&reg; for heterotropic plate counts ( hpc ) products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water-testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . the sale of dairy testing products in the u.s. is regulated by the fda in conjunction with the aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). before a product can be sold, extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with a protocol that is approved by the fda and the aoac ri. following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by the national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ), an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our dairy antibiotic residue testing products have been approved by the fda and ncims. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, drug and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at december 31, 2005, we had approximately 3,300 full-time and part-time employees. we are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we believe that relations with our employees are good. 8 item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. idexx's future growth and profitability depend on several factors the future success of our business depends upon our ability to successfully implement various strategies, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing new products with new features and capabilities, including pharmaceutical products; a new clinical chemistry instrument; and rapid assay, water testing and production animal diagnostic products, as well as improving and enhancing existing products; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business areas for us; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the connectivity of these products, including the connectivity among the idexx vetlab &reg; instrument suite, cornerstone &reg; practice information management system, the idexx-pacs software and idexx reference laboratories; expanding our market by expanding the installed base of our instrumentation through customer acquisition and retention and increasing use of our products by our customers; strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; and reducing the costs of manufacturing our products and providing services through operating efficiencies and increased focus on quality. however, we may not be able to successfully implement some or all of these strategies and increase or sustain our rate of growth or profitability. our products and services are subject to various government regulations in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the u.s. department of agriculture ( usda ), u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ). most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our pharmaceutical and dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have entered into an agreement with the fda under which we have agreed, among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability testing of our snap&reg; beta-lactam dairy-testing products and to provide related data to the fda. if the fda were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the fda could take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting our ability to sell these products. sales of dairy antibiotic residue-testing products were $15.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2005. commercialization of animal health pharmaceuticals in the u.s. requires prior approval by the fda. to obtain such approvals, we are required to submit substantial clinical, manufacturing and other data to the fda. regulatory approval for products submitted to the fda may take several years and, following approval, the fda continues to regulate all aspects of the manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping and promotion of pharmaceutical products. failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, fda approval for new pharmaceutical products would have a negative impact on our future growth. 9 we purchase materials for our products from a limited number of sources we currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our vettest &reg; chemistry, vetautoread hematology, vetlyte &reg; electrolyte, and vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumables; certain digital radiography system components, specifically image capture plates and readers; active ingredients for pharmaceutical products; and certain components of our snap &reg; rapid assay devices, water testing products and lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzers. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions or delays in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the slides sold for use in our vettest &reg; chemistry analyzers are purchased under an agreement with ortho that, as of december 31, 2005, required us to purchase a minimum of $92.7 million of slides through 2010. we purchase our electrolyte instruments, components and consumables under an agreement with roche diagnostics, under which we are required to purchase a minimum of $4.1 million of these products through 2006. we purchase our vetautoread hematology analyzers, components and consumables under an agreement with qbcd, under which we are required to make aggregate minimum purchases of $18.0 million through 2020. if demand for any of the products purchased under these agreements is insufficient to support our minimum purchase obligations for those products, we could incur losses related to those obligations. in addition, because we purchase the products at predetermined prices, our profits on sales of these products could decline if we are unable to maintain current pricing levels for such products. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. we attempt to mitigate risk associated with the manufacture of biologics by continuing to improve the characterization of all of our input materials, utilizing multiple vendors, manufacturing some of these materials ourselves and maintaining substantial inventories of materials that have demonstrated the appropriate characteristics. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who develop substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 our sales are dependent on distributor purchasing patterns we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of customers, unanticipated changes in the timing and size of distributor purchases can have a negative effect on quarterly results. our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. our markets are competitive and subject to rapid and substantial technological change we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. changes in diagnostic testing could negatively affect our operating results the market for diagnostic tests could be negatively impacted by the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our production animal services business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence and government-mandated testing programs. such declines in diagnostic testing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. international revenue accounts for a significant portion of our total revenue for the year ended december 31, 2005, 34% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. in addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the u.s. and our costs are incurred in u.s. dollars. we utilize nonspeculative forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure, however, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material impact on our business. 11 we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, research and development expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be materially affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and adversely affected by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities. we believe that we have adequately accrued for all potential tax liabilities and, although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk. we operate subsidiaries in 15 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. 35 the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 18 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or accruals, as appropriate, and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods. our hedging strategy provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following twelve months. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. at december 31, 2005, we had $0.6 million in net unrealized gains on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $0.3 million in taxes. our currency rate exposure at december 31, 2005 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or its subsidiaries functional currency. based on our overall currency rate exposure, excluding unrealized gains of $0.8 million at december 31, 2005 and unrealized losses of $4.3 million at december 31, 2004 on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies would reduce operating income by approximately $2.6 million for 2006 and a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2004 would have reduced operating income for 2005 by approximately $3.3 million. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies at december 31, 2005 would increase operating income by approximately $2.6 million in 2006. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2004 would have increased operating income by approximately $3.3 million in 2005. as of december 31, 2005, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $9.7 million in 2006, compared to $9.9 million in 2005, and the effects of a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase operating income by approximately $9.7 million in 2006, compared to $9.9 million in 2005.risk factors. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was filed with the securities and exchange commission and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our views change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the veterinary and the food and water testing markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising rapid assays and instruments and consumables; laboratory and consulting services used by veterinarians; veterinary pharmaceutical products; information products and services and digital radiography systems for veterinarians; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for production animals; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human medical diagnostics market. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is idexx.com. references herein to we, us; the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. 2 products and services during 2006, we operated primarily through three reportable segments: products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as our companion animal group ( cag ), water quality products ( water ) and products for production animal health, which we refer to as the production animal segment ( pas ). we also operated a smaller segment that comprises products for dairy quality, which we refer to as dairy. financial information about the dairy operating segment is presented in an other category. as of january 2007, we have added an operating segment, which we refer to as opti medical systems ( opti medical ), in connection with our acquisition of the critical care division of osmetech plc, which is presented in an other category. opti medical develops, manufactures, and sells point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumable products for the human medical diagnostics market. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2006 included in this form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and about our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated and highly flexible suite of in-house laboratory analyzers for use in veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab &reg; suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab &reg; suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products that are described below: blood and urine chemistry . our vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer is used to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine in order to assist the veterinarian in diagnosing physiologic conditions. twenty-six separate tests can be performed on the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer and additional parameters can be calculated. blood tests commonly run include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) and total protein. the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer also runs tests for urine protein/urine creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels, such as the preanesthetic panel, the general health profile, the equine panel, the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) monitoring panel, the quality control panel and the diagnostic health profile. our vetlyte &reg; analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. we purchase our vetlyte &reg; electrolyte analyzers and consumables from roche diagnostics corporation. our vetstat &reg; analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as bicarbonate and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat &reg; electrolyte and blood gas analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. on january 31, 2007 we acquired the critical care division of osmetech plc, which had been our supplier of vetstat &reg; analyzers and consumables. see the section titled opti medical systems below. we purchase all of the reagents used in the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer ( dry chemistry slides or vettest &reg; slides ) from ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson. see business-production and supply. in october 2003, we entered into an agreement with ortho under which we are developing a next-generation chemistry analyzer for the veterinary market, named catalyst dx , which is based primarily on ortho dry-slide technology. ortho will provide slide consumables used in both the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer and the new analyzer through 2020. catalyst dx will provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu, including the ability to run electrolytes. we expect catalyst dx to be commercially available in january 2008. we also expect to be selling and supporting vettest &reg; for the foreseeable future. chemistry reagent sales from our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab &reg; equipment. 3 hematology . we sell two hematology analyzers: the lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets; and the vetautoread hematology analyzer. we manufacture the lasercyte &reg; internally and source the consumable through a contract manufacturing arrangement. quantitative immunoassay testing . the idexx snap &reg; reader allows the veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids. t 4 and cortisol measurements assist in diagnosing and monitoring the treatment of certain endocrine diseases, such as hyper- and hypothyroidism, cushing syndrome and addison disease. bile acid measurements assist in the diagnosis of liver disease. samples and reagents are introduced to the analyzer using our snap &reg; platform. we have under development and plan to launch a new quantitative immunoassay platform by january 2008, called snapshot dx , which will replace the idexx snap &reg; reader. snapshot dx is designed to significantly improve ease of use, throughput and menu. we will manufacture this instrument and its consumables internally. urinalysis. our idexx vetlab &reg; ua provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab &reg; station . we sell idexx vetlab &reg; station ( ivls ) as an integral component of the lasercyte system and also as a standalone hardware platform. in both cases, ivls physically connects and integrates all the idexx vetlab &reg; equipment and provides a laboratory information management system capability. ivls includes a user interface to run the individual equipment; generates one integrated patient report; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data; and connects to practice information management systems, including idexx cornerstone &reg; and better choice&reg; systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. rapid assays we provide a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap &reg; name that allow quick, accurate and convenient test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these products enable veterinarians to provide improved service to animal owners by delivering test results and a diagnosis at the time of the patient visit, allowing the veterinarian to initiate therapy or prevention, if required. these kits work without the use of instrumentation. we also plan to provide, in 2008, the capability to have snapshot dx interpret all snap results and add these results automatically to the patient electronic medical record. our principal single-use tests include canine combination parasite tests called snap &reg; 3dx &reg; , which tests simultaneously for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and heartworm, and snap &reg; 4dx &reg; , which additionally tests for anaplasma phagocytophilum ; a canine heartworm-only test; a canine test for parvovirus; a feline combination test, the snap &reg; combo fiv antibody/felv antigen test, which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus) and feline leukemia virus ( felv ); a feline test for felv only; and canine and feline tests for giardia , a parasitic disease. sales of canine parasite tests, including the heartworm only test, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in may 2006 we acquired intellectual property and distribution rights related to certain canine and feline rapid assay products from agen biomedical limited. we sell these tests primarily in asia and australia. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits, under the petchek &reg; name, that are used by larger clinics and laboratories to test multiple samples. petchek &reg; tests offer accuracy, ease of use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. we currently sell petchek &reg; tests for canine heartworm disease, fiv, and felv. veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, and south africa. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in production and companion animals. 4 additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including cardiology, radiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services permit veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet from the veterinarians offices. practice information management systems and digital radiography practice information management systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information management systems ( pims ) including hardware and software that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including patient electronic health records management, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), billing and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone &reg; system. we believe we are one of the leading providers of veterinary practice information management systems in north america, with an installed base of more than 6,600 of the approximately 28,000 veterinary hospitals in north america. we also provide software and hardware support to our pims customers, and related supplies and services to veterinary pims users in general, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement through contrast management. we market and sell three digital radiography systems, the idexx-dr 1417 and the idexx-cr 1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g., dogs and cats) veterinary hospital, and the idexx equiview&reg; dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the idexx-pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone &reg; system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. pharmaceutical products we develop, market and sell pharmaceuticals for the veterinary market. we currently market and sell four pharmaceutical products: pzi vet &reg; , an insulin product for the treatment of diabetic cats; acarexx &reg; (.01% ivermectin) otic suspension for the treatment of ear mites in cats; surpass &reg; (1% diclofenac sodium), a topical, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug for equine use; and navigator &reg; (32% nitazoxanide) antiprotozoal oral paste, a treatment for equine protozoal myeloencephalitis ( epm ). see part i, item 1a. risk factors we may be required to discontinue sales of one of our veterinary pharmaceutical products. water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological analytes in water. our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18 and colisure &reg; tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert product detects enterococci in drinking and recreational waters. our quanti-tray &reg; products, when used in conjunction with our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; or enterolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure&reg; and quanti-tray &reg; products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. 5 our filta-max &reg; product is used in the detection of cryptosporidia in water. cryptosporidia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. testing of water supplies for cryptosporidia has been mandated by regulation only in the united kingdom. on december 29, 2006, the drinking water inspectorate in the u.k. published a proposal to discontinue the regulation that requires testing water supplies for cryptosporidia effective as of december 22, 2007 or, if approved by the regulator, at an earlier date. if this proposal is adopted, we believe that we will lose a substantial portion of our sales of filta-max products in england and wales, which were $2.9 million in the year ended december 31, 2006. production animal segment we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in production animals. our production animal products are purchased primarily by government laboratories and poultry and swine producers. significant products include diagnostic tests for porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome and pseudorabies virus in pigs; newcastle disease in poultry; and johne disease, bovine viral diarrhea virus, and brucellosis in cattle. we have developed a postmortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ). this test was approved for use in the u.s. by the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) in 2004 and for use in the european union ( eu ) by the european commission in february 2005. we also offer related tests for the detection of similar diseases, such as scrapie in small ruminants, including sheep, and chronic wasting disease in deer. testing for bse in the u.s. is limited and we do not know when or if the usda will expand its testing program, which would increase the domestic market for these tests. on january 26, 2007 we announced that we had entered into an agreement to acquire all of the shares of institut pourquier. based in montpellier, france, institut pourquier develops, manufactures and sells production animal diagnostic products. the closing of this transaction is subject to certain conditions and is expected to occur in march 2007. institut pourquier had sales of approximately $7.5 million in 2006. other dairy our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap &reg; beta-lactam test. dairy producers and processors use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk, and government and food-quality managers use them for ongoing surveillance. in march 2003, we entered into an agreement with the fda under which we agreed, among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability testing of our snap &reg; beta-lactam products and to provide related data to the fda. if the fda were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the fda could take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting our ability to sell these products. sales of dairy antibiotic residue testing products were $15.4 million in 2006. opti medical systems we sell opti &reg; point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as bicarbonate and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and any locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti &reg; cca electrolyte and blood gas analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti &reg; r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti &reg; lion analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. 6 marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. sales and marketing expense was $115.9 million, $102.0 million and $85.7 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, or 16% of sales in each year. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our veterinary diagnostic and pharmaceutical products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and test kits, pharmaceutical products and instrument consumables supplied primarily by the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our veterinary diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our reference laboratory services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force primarily in the u.s. we market our water and food diagnostics products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti &reg; electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti &reg; electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumables through our direct sales force and through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. in 2005, two of our cag distributors merged and, as a result, the combined company, butler animal health supply, llc, accounted for 9% and 10% of our 2006 and 2005 revenue, respectively, and 5% and 4% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. our research and development activity is focused primarily on development of new diagnostic instrument platforms and information systems, new immunoassay devices, new diagnostic tests, new animal drugs, enhanced practice information systems, and improvements in the performance, connectivity, usability, and interoperability of our products and services. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $53.6 million, $40.9 million and $35.4 million, or 7.3%, 6.4% and 6.4% of sales, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. these licenses include an exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents relating to diagnostic products for fiv that expire in 2009, from the regents of the university of california; and exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to certain patents and patent applications expiring beginning in 2019 that relate to the detection of lyme disease. we also have an exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents expiring in 2007 relating to defined substrate technology ( dst ) that is utilized in the colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; and enterolert water testing products, although we do not believe the expiration of the dst patents in 2007 will have a material effect on our water business. in addition, we hold a u.s. patent expiring in 2014 that specifically covers the colilert &reg; -18 product and another patent expiring in 2014 that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, and which covers certain of our snap &reg; products, including our snap &reg; combo fiv/felv and canine snap &reg; 3dx &reg; and 4dx &reg; combination tests. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 7 production and supply vettest &reg; chemistry analyzers are manufactured for us by tokyo parts industrial company, ltd. under an agreement that renews annually unless either party notifies the other of its decision not to renew. vettest &reg; slides are supplied exclusively by ortho under supply agreements with ortho (the ortho agreements ). we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest &reg; slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. in addition, we have committed to minimum annual purchase volumes of certain vettest &reg; slides through 2010. under these agreements ortho will also supply the slide consumables used in the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer. the ortho agreements expire on december 31, 2020. the vetautoread hematology analyzer is manufactured for us by qbc diagnostics, inc. ( qbcd ) under a supply agreement that expires on december 31, 2020. the vetlyte &reg; electrolyte analyzer is manufactured for us by roche diagnostics corporation under an agreement that requires roche diagnostics to supply analyzers through december 31, 2007, and consumables and spare parts through december 31, 2013. we have certain minimum purchase obligations under these agreements. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from a single supplier. these include active ingredients for our pharmaceutical products, certain digital radiography systems, certain other instruments, instrument consumables, and certain components used in our snap &reg; rapid assay devices, water testing products, and instruments, including in lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzers. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from small businesses focused on animal health to large pharmaceutical and human medical diagnostics companies. our competitors vary in our different markets. academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. some of our competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic products and food and water testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, completeness and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. veterinary laboratory and consulting services . in this market, we compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, and our pricing relative to the value of our services. we compete in most geographic locations in the u.s. with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. veterinary pharmaceuticals . we compete primarily on the basis of the performance characteristics of our products. 8 practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human medical diagnostics point-of-care market . in this market we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our production animal products and our rapid assay lines of business, are veterinary biological products for infectious diseases that are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the usda animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. veterinary pharmaceuticals . the manufacture and sale of veterinary pharmaceuticals are regulated by the center for veterinary medicine ( cvm ) of the fda. a new animal drug may not be commercially marketed in the u.s. unless it has been approved as safe and effective by cvm. approval may be requested by filing a new animal drug application ( nada ) with cvm containing substantial evidence as to the safety and effectiveness of the drug. data regarding manufacturing methods and controls also are required to be submitted with the nada. manufacturers of animal drugs must also comply with cgmp and good laboratory practices ( glp ). sales of animal drugs in countries outside the u.s. require compliance with the laws of those countries, which may be extensive. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water-quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; , quanti-tray &reg; , filta-max &reg; and simplate &reg; for heterotropic plate counts ( hpc ) products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . the sale of dairy testing products in the u.s. is regulated by the fda in conjunction with the aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). before a product can be sold, extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with a protocol that is approved by the fda and the aoac ri. following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by the national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ), an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our dairy antibiotic residue testing products have been approved by the fda and ncims. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. 9 human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti &reg; instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing is regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti &reg; products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti &reg; products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application. opti &reg; products are also subject to regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in each country in which they are sold. the european medical device directives create a single set of medical device regulations for all eu member countries, and they require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. we have obtained authorization to apply the ce marking to our opti &reg; products. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, drug, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at december 31, 2006, we had approximately 3,900 full-time and part-time employees. we are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we believe that relations with our employees are good. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our growth rate our ability to maintain our growth rate depends on our successful implementation of various strategies, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new products with new features, functions and capabilities, including in-house laboratory analyzers such as catalyst dx and snapshot dx , rapid assay and other specialized diagnostic tests and services, water testing products, production animal diagnostic products, and companion animal veterinary pharmaceuticals, as well as improving and enhancing existing products; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business areas for us; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products, including the interoperability among the idexx vetlab &reg; instrument suite, cornerstone &reg; practice information management system, the idexx-pacs software and idexx reference laboratories; expanding our market by expanding the installed base of our instrumentation through customer acquisition and retention and increasing use of our products by our customers; and strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s. 10 however, we may not be able to successfully implement some or all of these strategies and increase or sustain our rate of growth or profitability. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, fda and the epa. most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our pharmaceutical and dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti &reg; line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers, which we acquired in january 2007, are regulated by the fda and require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to an agreement with the fda under which we are required, among other things, to perform selected specified lot release and stability testing of our snap &reg; beta-lactam dairy testing products and to provide related data to the fda. if the fda were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the fda could take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting our ability to sell these products. sales of dairy antibiotic residue-testing products were $15.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our vetautoread hematology, vetlyte &reg; electrolyte and idexx vetlab &reg; ua urinalysis analyzers and related consumables and accessories; the consumables associated with our vettest chemistry analyzers; certain digital radiography system components, specifically image capture plates and readers; active ingredients for pharmaceutical products; and certain components of our snap &reg; rapid assay devices, water testing products and lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzers. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions, delays or discontinuations in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our minimum purchase obligations under certain agreements could reduce our profitability we purchase the slides sold for use in our vettest &reg; chemistry analyzers under an agreement with ortho that, as of december 31, 2006, required us to purchase a minimum of $59.0 million of slides through 2010. we purchase our vetautoread hematology analyzers, components and consumables under an agreement under which we are required to make aggregate minimum purchases of $15.7 million through 2020. we also have minimum purchase commitments under the terms of certain other supply agreements that commit us to future payments of $20.4 million. if demand for any of the products purchased under these agreements is insufficient to support our minimum purchase obligations for those products, we could incur losses related to those obligations. in addition, because we purchase the products at predetermined prices, our profits on sales of these products could decline if we are unable to maintain current pricing levels for such products. we may be required to discontinue sales of one of our veterinary pharmaceutical products one of our veterinary pharmaceutical products is sold under the fda regulatory discretion and we believe that the fda would require us to discontinue sales of this product within a short period if and when the fda approves another product to treat the same condition, whether such new product was our product or that of another commercial supplier. in addition, we have a finite inventory of the raw materials used in the manufacture of the product, and these raw materials are no longer commercially available. we believe that our remaining inventory of raw materials will be adequate to satisfy existing market demand until late 2008 or early 2009. we have, in advanced development and clinical trials, a new product based on different raw materials and we intend to seek fda approval of this product. fda approval of this new product would fully mitigate the commercial risk that we would be required to stop selling our current product due either to fda approval of another manufacturer product or to the full depletion of our inventory of raw materials. while we hope to smoothly transition to our new product, we cannot predict when or if the fda will approve our new product or any product that treats the same condition from another manufacturer. revenues from sales of this pharmaceutical product were $11.9 million in 2006. 11 our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who develop substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. 12 increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. changes in testing could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion and production animal diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our production animal products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on december 29, 2006, the drinking water inspectorate in the u.k. published a proposal to discontinue the regulation that requires testing water supplies for cryptosporidia effective as of december 22, 2007 or, if approved by the regulator, at an earlier date. if this proposal is adopted, the company believes that it will lose a substantial portion of its sales of filta-max &reg; products in england and wales, which were $2.9 million in the year ended december 31, 2006. consolidation of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners include vca/antech, inc. and banfield, the pet hospital, both of whom are currently customers of idexx. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. in addition, vca/antech is our primary competitor in the u.s. market for reference laboratory services, and hospitals acquired by vca/antech will use its laboratory services almost exclusively. therefore, hospitals acquired by vca/antech generally will cease to be customers or potential customers of our reference laboratories business. our inexperience in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market upon acquiring the critical care division of osmetech plc, we entered the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market for the first time with the sale of the opti &reg; line of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, and more rapid technological innovation. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2006, 35% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. in addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the u.s. and our costs are incurred in u.s. dollars. we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure. however, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. 13 the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, research and development expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk. we operate subsidiaries in 16 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize some natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. market gains and losses are deferred in prepaid expenses or accruals, as appropriate, until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is settled. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 18 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with their anticipated intercompany inventory purchases for the next twelve months. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods. we enter into currency exchange contracts for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other specific, significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of income. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. at december 31, 2006, we had $1.3 million in net unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $0.7 million in taxes. our currency rate exposure at december 31, 2006 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or its subsidiaries functional currency. based on our overall currency rate exposure, excluding unrealized losses of $2.0 million at december 31, 2006 and unrealized gains of $0.8 million at december 31, 2005 on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges, a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies at december 31, 2006 would increase or decrease operating income, respectively, by approximately $3.1 million in 2007 and a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2005 would have increased or decreased operating income, respectively, by approximately $2.6 million in 2006. as of december 31, 2006, a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase or reduce operating income, respectively, by approximately $13.9 million in 2007, compared to $9.7 million in 2006. 42risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our est imates only as of the day this annual r eport on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables, and rapid assays ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians; practice management systems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; biological materials testing and laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to we, us, the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. 3 we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. description of business by segment during 20 12 , we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary and bioresearch market , which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ) , water quality products ( water ) and products for livestock and poultry health, which we refer to as livestock and poultry diagnostics ( lpd ). prior to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to our lpd segment as our production animal segment. we also operate two smaller operating segments that comprise products for milk quality and safety ( dairy ) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ). financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments is combined and presented with one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-licensing arrangements in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. see note 1 5 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 20 12 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and service categories. companion animal group cag offers a set of discrete products and services as described below. the breadth and complementary nature of our products and services permit us to offer integrated disease-management diagnostic solutions that leverage the advantages of both point-of-care and outside laboratory testing, facilitate the flow of medical and business information in the veterinary practice and between the veterinary practice and its clients, and provide us with scale in sales and distribution. our objective is to provide veterinarians with the tools and services to enhance the pet owner experience with veterinary medical care, while also growing veterinary practice revenues and improving staff efficiencies. vetconnect plus . in the third quarter of 2012, we launched vetconnect plus, a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from both idexx in-house analyzers, rapid assays and idexx reference laboratories in one place. vetc onnect plus combines all results that have been run on a patient with idexx vetlab station and reference l ab oratories , and thus allows the veterinarian to easily see and trend patient-specific diagnostic results, enabling greater me dical insight. in addition, vetc onnect plus provides instant mobile or i nternet access to results, whether run at idexx reference labs or on in-house equipment. results can easily be printed or emailed from vetc onnect plus to pet owners or other veterinarians. in this way, vetc onnect plus can aid the veterinarian and the practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance to care recommendations or preventive care protocols. instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated suite of in- house laboratory analyzers for use in providing reference laboratory quality diagnostic results in companion animal veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below: 4 blood and urine chemistry . we sell two chemistry analyzers , the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer , that are used by v eterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. both instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson, based on ortho dry slide technology ( catalyst dx slides, vettest slides or slides ). in addition, the catalyst dx analyzer also uses dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at opti medical systems, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries . blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) , and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. the catalyst dx analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in 2008. the catalyst dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu relative to the vettest analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged , multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. the catalyst dx analyzer also enables automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient sample simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 28 different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. in addition, the catalyst dx analyzer runs a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterinarians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our vetlyte electrolyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the vetstat analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by opti medical systems. sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count ( cbc )). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the lasercyte hematology analyzer and the newly launched lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx analyzer is our premier hematology analyzer, which we launched in 2010. the procyte dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx analyzer provides up to 24 different blood parameters including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for nine companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. in january 2013, we launched the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, which combines the advanced capabilities of the original lasercyte hematology analyzer with several features of our procyte dx analyzer. 5 quantitative immunoassay testing . with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function , respectively . the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx and snap 4dx plus tests , feline snap fiv/felv combo t est , canine snap cpl t est , feline snap f pl t est , snap feline triple test and canine snap heartworm rt t est . urinalysis . the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab equipment and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. we sell the ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx , lasercyte , lasercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a user interface to simplify laboratory work flow , connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite ; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results; and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. ivls also connects back to idexx through smartservice tm solutions, a secure internet link that enables us to provide diagnostic service, software updates and support for certain idexx vetlab instruments through remote access. rapid assays we sell a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap name that provide quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these kits work without the use of instrumentation , although many kits may also be read automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer as discussed above . principal single-use canine tests are : snap 4dx plus, launched during the second quarter of 2012, which tests for the tick-borne diseases lyme disease, ehrlichia canis , ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys and the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm; snap 4dx , which tests for the tick-borne diseases lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and anaplasma phagocytophilum and the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm; snap 3dx , which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and canine heartworm; snap heartworm rt, which tests for canine heartworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl , which tests for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and snap leishmania, which tests for a parasitological disease transmitted by mosquitoes that affects biological systems and vital organs. principal single-use feline tests are : snap feline triple , which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus), feline leukemia virus ( felv ), and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap felv, which tests for felv; snap fpl , which we launched during the second quarter of 2011, tests for feline pancreatitis; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens. 6 sales of canine vector-borne disease tests , including snap 4dx plus, snap 4dx , snap 3dx and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the petchek name for canine heartworm, fiv and felv. l arger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease - of - use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services reference laboratory diagnostic services . we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, south africa , china and south korea. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays . this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant conditions in dogs and cats, including heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. health monitoring and biological materials testing . in november 2011, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory ( radil ) business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri. radil provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe and asia. the financial results of radil are reflected in the financial results of our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services business. consulting services . additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. practice management and digital imaging systems and services practice management systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware and software, and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. our principal practice management system is cornerstone . we also support several legacy practice management systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice , idexx vpm and idexx vetlink . in december 2012, we acquired the assets of sneakers software, inc., which sold dvmax veterinary practice management software and such acquisition did not have a material effect on our results of operation in 2012 and is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operation in 2013. our practice management service include cornerstone coaching, practice profile , idexx reminder service, vetvault backup solution, petdetect pet identification system and pet health network pro. pet health network pro, beta launched in the third quarter of 2012, is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit. we anticipate a full commercial launch of pet health network pro during the first quarter of 2013. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. digital imaging systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph ic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell two digital radiography systems for use in the small animal veterinary hospital : the idexx i-vision cr , our latest generation computed radiography system, which we launched in september 2011 and the idexx-dr 1417 system. we also market and sell the idexx equiview dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. 7 our digital radiography systems use picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software, idexx-pacs and idexx equiview pacs , for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. in september 2011, we launched idexx i-vision mobile , an application that allows veterinarians with the idexx-dr 1417 and idexx i-vision cr systems, as well as our legacy digital radiography systems , to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. water we offer a range of products used in the detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water. our principal products are the colilert , colilert -18 and colisure tests , which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in b everage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci , bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasite that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by life technologies corporation that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , enterolert , pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. livestock and poultry diagnostics we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in livestock and poultry. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians and producers. our principal products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we launched a milk-based pregnancy test for detecting pregnancy in dairy cattle, which provides a means to optimize reproductive efficiency. since 2009, changes in testing regulations pertaining to bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ) have led to a decline in revenues from sales of our bse test products. revenue from bse testing products was less than $ 10 million during the twelve months ended december 31, 2012. bse is a fatal neurodegenerative disease in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. 8 other dairy the principal products in our dairy business are our snap tests used to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. d airy producers and processors worldwide use our tests for quality and safety assurance of raw milk. our pri mary product line for detecting antibiotic residue in milk is snap beta-lactam , which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ceftiofur and cephapirin residues, followed by snap duo beta-tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the snap beta lactam test kits. we also sell nap test for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk , such as chemical melamine and aflatoxin m1 . opti medical systems we sell opti point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose , lactate, bun and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti cca and opti touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. opti medical systems also manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market. in addition, opti medical systems provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst dx analyzer . other activities in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of cag, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements in effect at the time of the realignment, to the other segment. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we have continued to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties , such as pharmaceutical companies , that we also include in the other segment . w e earned milestone payments of $3.5 million, $3.0 million and $3.0 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010 , respectively , in connection with the achievement of certain sales milestones by the acquirer following commercialization of the feline insulin product. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 20 12 included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business . since realignment to the rapid assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of one of the remaining pharmaceutical product lines. neither this product line nor the second remaining product line is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the rapid assay line of business. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan, the united kingdom , south africa, poland and south korea . sales and marketing expense was $217.0 mi llion, $ 204.9 million and $1 79.6 million for the twelve months ended dece mber 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or 16.8% of consolidated revenue in each of 2012 and 2011 and 16.3% of consolidated revenue in 2010. 9 generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distribut ors . outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the u.s. and canada. we market our water , livestock and poultry and dairy products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler schein animal health supply, llc ( butler ), accounted for 9% of our consolidated revenue in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting an d development costs, were $82.0 million, $76.0 million and $68.6 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or 6.3% of revenue in 2012 and 6.2% of revenue in each of 2011 and 2010. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 201 7 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test ; a patent concerning the colilert -18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies utilized in certain of our snap products that expire beginning in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting prrs that expire in 201 4; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017 ; patents concerning the snap immunoassay platform that expire in 2015; and patents concerning catalyst dx consumables that expire beginning in 2023. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 10 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. i nstruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include vettest analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), lasercyte and lasercyte dx consumables and vetautoread tm , vetlyte , and procyte dx analyzers and consumables. vettest and catalyst dx chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst dx chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. we are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. annual price increases are capped at 3%. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. this competition is intensifying and increasing , as new competitors have entered our markets and some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. in addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietary or highly differentiated products and services , integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. 11 we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health . our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers . our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services , which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products , diagnostic accuracy , product quality , breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. , and abaxis, inc. w ater, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory endorsements from governing agencies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with co mpetitive products and services. our com petitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. practice management and digital imaging systems and services . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america where our largest competitor is butler. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. 12 veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products . we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import product manufactured in montpellier, france to the u . . for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated , mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is re gulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , filta-max xpress , enterolert , and simplate for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs . w ater testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices . however, b efore products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product ha been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. 13 any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at february 8, 2013 , we had approximatel y 5,400 employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. 14 our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our catalyst dx and vettest consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vetlyte e lectrolyte, idexx vetlab ua urinalysis, vettest chemistry, and coag dx blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products and lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that ensure an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, with samples and with the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could necessitate field actions that would require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits with their respective owners to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as the pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets in recent years has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. a decline in patient visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership in general, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests or make capital purchases could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at the government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by the government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen and australian dollar, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and exported to international markets. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 26%, 26% and 25%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. to mitigate such foreign currency exposure, we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the united states department of agriculture ( usda ), the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ). our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda prior to sale in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and these products require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the impact of one of our distributors becoming non-exclusive on our results of operations is uncertain on february 11, 2013, the commissioners of the u.s. federal trade commission ( ftc ) granted final approval of the agreement containing consent order to cease and desist ( consent agreement ) previously reached with the ftc staff to resolve the investigation into whether idexx had engaged in unfair methods of competition in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act. details about the ftc investigation and the resulting consent agreement are described in part i, item 3. legal proceedings. 16 on september 28, 2012, we entered into a modified agreement with mwi veterinary supply, inc. ( mwi ) that became effective january 1, 2013. under this modified agreement, mwi is permitted to carry any competitive products without restriction or potential negative consequence. this agreement satisfies the requirements of the consent agreement, that we may have exclusive distribution agreements with only two of the three largest u.s. distributors of companion animal veterinary products. the modification of our agreement with mwi will result in one or more of our competitors selling products through mwi, which we expect will increase the field sales resources of mwi used by those competitors to sell their products. under the modified agreement with mwi, we will provide lower compensation to mwi on sales of our products since we will no longer receive the benefits of mwi exclusive focus on our products. we expect to reinvest savings from this lower rate of compensation in other sales and marketing resources and the selling efforts of our other distributors. we believe that the reallocation of these sales resources will help mitigate the potential effects of the loss of exclusive focus of mwi and the additional field sales resources used by our competitors. however, there can be no assurances that we will be able to fully mitigate the competitive effects of the changes in the nature of our agreement with mwi. any reduction in the relative effectiveness of our overall selling efforts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which we do not believe would be material. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with u.s. distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days prior written notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the unanticipated loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels increases our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. 17 increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets and new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering similar products and services to ours at lower sales prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ) in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which reduced the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. in february 2011, the european union standing committee on the food chain and animal health ( scfcah ) agreed to allow its member states to further raise the recommended testing age to 72 months, effective july 1, 2011, which further reduced the population of cattle tested. in december 2012, the scfcah agreed to allow european union member states the option to eliminate bse testing of healthy cattle at slaughter effective march 2013. the demand for our bse testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of these regulatory changes and could be further impacted by further changes that could be made in the future. revenue from bse testing products was less than $10 million during the twelve months ended december 31, 2012. 18 increase in corporate hospital ownership and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc., national veterinary associates and banfield pet hospital, each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums that we believe are positive for our business, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums, in particular banfield pet hospital, to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations, which could be material. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech inc., our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally use their reference laboratory services almost exclusively and shift a large portion of their testing from in-clinic testing to their reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately 41% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 43% and 41% for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. various possible risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters and unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters or system failures the operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. 19 we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock and poultry testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; and wetherby, the united kingdom. therefore, interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a system disruption that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, marketing programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, or if they expire or are renewed at less favorable terms, our inability to realize these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. 20 restrictions in our credit facility or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to satisfy our obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility ( credit facility ) depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt and possibly on terms not deemed favorable. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility. if we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 26%, 26% and 25%, respectively, of idexx consolidated revenues were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies . the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for one of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are either recognized in earnings or deferred in other comprehensive income ( oci ), net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings . we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, we were not hedging any specific, significant transactions. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2012. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year that are in excess of amounts previously hedged. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchase and sales outstanding at december 31 , 2012 and 2011 was $157.0 million and $161.8 million, respectively. at december 31, 2012, we had $0.4 million in net unrealized losses on foreign currency exchange contracts designated as hedging instruments recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of less than $0.1 million in taxes. our foreign currency exchange risk is comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of settled hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2013, excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce operating income by approximately $8 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. 59 in 2011, we refinanced our existing $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated credit agreement relating to a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $300 million with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on july 25, 2016 (the new credit facility is referred to as the credit facility ). we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of our credit facility to the extent that the london interbank rate ( libor ) or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate ( cdor ) increases. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.875 to 1.25 percentage points ( credit spread ) above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate interest rate risk in future periods. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2012 were $212 million at a weighted-average effective interest rate of 1.3%. based on amounts outstanding and our interest rate swap effective at december 31, 2012, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $1.7 million on an annualized basis. in 2009, we entered into two forward fixed interest rate swap agreements to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations. under these agreements, beginning on march 31, 2010 the variable interest rate associated with $80 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 2% plus the credit spread through march 30, 2012. in august 2011, we entered into two additional forward fixed interest rate swap agreements for the same purpose. under these agreements, beginning on march 30, 2012, the variable interest rate associated with $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility will become effectively fixed at 1.36% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016 and beginning on march 28, 2013, the variable interest rate associated with an additional $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility will become effectively fixed at 1.64% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges . see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1983. we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables, and rapid assays ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians; practice management systems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; biological materials testing and laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. 4 description of business by segment prior to january 1, 2013, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we continue to refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products for livestock and poultry health, which we referred to as livestock and poultry diagnostics. we also operated two smaller operating segments that comprised products for milk quality and safety ( dairy ) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ). financial information about our dairy and opti medical operating segments was combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an other category because they did not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. in 2013, we combined the management of our livestock and poultry diagnostics and dairy lines of business to more effectively realize the market synergies between the product lines and to achieve operational efficiencies. we refer to this segment as livestock, poultry and dairy ( lpd ). our opti medical operating segment remains combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the segment income (loss) from operations discussed within this report for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 has been retrospectively revised to reflect this change in the composition of our reportable segments. see note 1 5 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2013 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including our product and service categories and our geographic areas . the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2013, sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 42% of our overall revenue. these foreign sales accounted for approximately 35%, 51% and 88% of revenue in our cag, water and lpd segments, respectively. see part 1, item 1a. risk factors. companion animal group cag provides diagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of pets to veterinarians. the breadth and complementary nature of our products and services comprise a unique competitive advantage that we refer to as the idexx diagnostic advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. the idexx diagnostic advantage improves staff efficiencies and also enables the veterinarian to communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner, which ultimately leads to growing practice revenues. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services, which are integrated within our information management technologies to provide a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from idexx diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend patient - specific diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight. in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarian and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. 5 in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of both our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry and hematology analyzers and associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we sell three chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, the upcoming catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst dx and the catalyst one analyzer also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by opti medical systems, inc. ( opti medical systems ), one of our wholly- owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by idexx. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the early detection of renal disease. the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital and fructosamine. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterinarians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . we began shipping a fructosamine test, compatible for the catalyst dx and upcoming catalyst one analyzers, during the fourth quarter of 2013. fructosamine levels are used to manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. we expect to introduce a total thyroxine ( t 4 ) slide for use with the catalyst one analyzer upon its launch date and for use with the catalyst dx early in 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. the upcoming catalyst one analyzer is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic work-flow requirements. in addition, the catalyst one analyzer will be the industry first to combine chemistry, electrolytes and t 4 in a single sample run. placements of the catalyst one analyzer are expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2014. we also sell two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by opti medical systems. sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and recurring revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. 6 hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original lasercyte hematology analyzer and next generation lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx analyzer is our premier hematology analyzer, which we launched in 2010. the procyte dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx analyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for ten companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. in 2012, we began to place procyte dx analyzers containing a more advanced and research-focused user interface with customers in the bioresearch market. in 2013, we launched the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, which combines the advanced capabilities of the original lasercyte hematology analyzer with several features of our procyte dx analyzer. immunoassay testing instruments . with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, snap feline triple test and canine snap heartworm rt test. we are taking pre-orders for our upcoming snap pro mobile device that automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the snap pro mobile screen, or via vetconnect plus. in addition, the snap pro mobile device improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. we anticipate the snap pro mobile device will begin shipping at the end of the first quarter of 2014. urinalysis . the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. ivls securely connects to the internet, and in this way enables idexx to perform, through smartservice solutions, remote instrument service and firmware updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus. we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx, lasercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. 7 the snap rapid assays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer or activated and captured automatically by the snap pro mobile device as discussed above. the principal snap rapid assay tests are as follows: ingle- u se c anine t ests : snap 4dx plus, launched during the second quarter of 201 2 , which tests for the tick-borne diseases lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys , and the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm; snap 3dx, which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and canine heartworm; snap heartworm rt, which tests for canine heartworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which tests for canine pancreatitis; and snap giardia, which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection . ingle- u se f eline t ests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia, which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens ; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus, snap 3dx and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the petchek name for canine heartworm, fiv and felv. larger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, south africa and south korea. we have large reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large courier hubs. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant conditions in dogs and cats, including heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. 8 in 2012, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory ( radil ) business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri. radil provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe and asia. customer information management and digital imaging systems customer information management . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone and dvmax veterinary practice management software. we also support several legacy practice management systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice, idexx vpm and idexx vetlink. our practice management services include cornerstone coaching, practice profile, idexx reminder service, vetvault backup solution and petdetect pet identification system. in addition, we commercially launched pet health network pro in march 2013. pet health network pro is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer idexx pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based tool which provides anatomical animations that improve client communication and understanding in the exam room and facilitates adhe rence to veterinarian recommendations. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. digital imaging systems . our digital imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell two digital imaging systems for use in the small animal veterinary hospital, the idexx i-vision cr, our latest generation computed radiography system, launched in 2012, and the idexx i-vision dr system. we also market and sell the idexx equiview system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital imaging systems use picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software, idexx-pacs and idexx equiview pacs, for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital imaging systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. idexx i-vision mobile is an application that allows veterinarians with the i-vision dr and idexx i-vision cr systems, as well as our legacy digital radiography systems, to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. in november 2013, we launched the idexx imagebank storage system, a cloud-based image storage solution which provides secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images and is accessible anywhere through vetconnect plus. water we provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for people around the world. our principal products are the colilert, colilert-18 and colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. 9 our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by life technologies corporation that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. livestock, poultry and dairy we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians, producers and processors. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine. our principal dairy products use our snap test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product line is snap beta-lactam, which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin, ceftiofur and cephapirin residues, followed by snapduo beta-tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the snap beta lactam test kits. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in the third quarter of 2013, we acquired a brazilian distributor of certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy products. as part of this acquisition, we acquired the right to distribute product lines of food safety products which provide microbial monitoring and drug residue tests for bovine, poultry and swine producers, meat exporters and pharmaceutical companies. other opti medical systems through opti medical systems, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations, and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. 10 in addition, opti medical systems manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market, and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst dx analyzer for our cag segment . other activities in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of cag, and realigned the remainder of the products, comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other segment. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are also included in the other segment. we earned milestone payments of $3.5 million and $3.0 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, in connection with the achievement of certain sales milestones by the acquirer of our feline insulin product following commercialization of that product. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2013, included in this annual report on form 10-k, for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business. since realignment to the rapid assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of the two remaining pharmaceutical product lines. neither of these product lines is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the rapid assay line of business. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in all major regions, including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the u.s. and canada. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are the u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. our two largest cag distributors are henry schein animal health supply, llc ( henry schein ) and mwi veterinary supply, inc. ( mwi ). henry schein accounted for 9% of our 2013, 2012 and 2011 revenue, and 7% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2013 and 2012. mwi accounted for 8%, 8% and 7% of our 2013, 2012 and 2011 revenue, respectively, and 11% and 9% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 11 research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $88.0 million, $82.0 million and $76.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, or 6.4%, 6.3% and 6.2% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings, strengthening the company reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; a patent concerning the colilert-18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting prrs that expire in 2014; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017; patents concerning the snap immunoassay platform that expire in 2015; and patents concerning catalyst dx consumables that expire beginning in 2023. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to the company , a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth , quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are co mpatible with our instruments. although the company has several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties expected to expire during 2014 and 2015, the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations. in addition , we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights . to the extent some of our products may now or in the future embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 12 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include vettest analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and t 4 slides), lasercyte and lasercyte dx consumables and vetautoread, vetlyte and procyte dx analyzers and consumables. vettest and catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health . our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers . our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. 13 competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products , diagnostic accuracy , product quality , breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. , abaxis, inc. and heska corporation. w ater, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with co mpetitive products and services. our com petitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. customer information management and digital imaging systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america where our largest competitor is henry schein. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company , abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation . government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products . we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import product manufactured in montpellier, france to the u . . for distribution. 14 our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated , mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to ob tain european conformity marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is re gulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrop h ic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs . w ater testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices . however, b efore products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda - approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product ha been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food safety, medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees a of february 7, 2014, we had approximately 5,700 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com . references to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k for any purpose. 15 we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com . item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this report. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; achieving productivity improvements in our companion animal diagnostic sales organization in north america by transitioning our specialty sales force that represent either in-house or reference laboratory diagnostics to account representatives who represent the full line of idexx diagnostics; attracting, developing and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; 16 identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, includ ing package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers failure to comply with their contractual obligations. problems with suppliers could negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vetlyte e lectrolyte, vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products and lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 changes to our relationships with distributors and distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in t he u.s., through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creat ing a demand for our products. our agreements with u.s. distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors p roducts over our own products. further, distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the en d-user demand for our products. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the unanticipated loss of a distributor, changes to our relationship with a distributor, such as a distributor becoming non-exclusive or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. further consolidation within distribution channels could increase our reliance on a limited number of distributors. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets and new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of many of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda or the epa. our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. 18 we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. for example, on february 11, 2013, the ftc granted final approval of the agreement containing consent order to cease and desist previously reached with the ftc staff to resolve the investigation into whether idexx had engaged in unfair methods of competition in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act. pursuant to this agreement, we may have exclusive distribution agreements with only two of the three largest u.s. distributors of companion animal veterinary products and, as a result, we entered into a modified agreement with mwi under which it is permitted to carry any competitive products without restriction or potential negative consequence. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to our business practices or the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us, suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products or impact our ability to market or distribute our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. increase in corporate hospital ownership and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include banfield pet hospital, national veterinary associates and vca antech, inc., each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in other countries, such as in the u.k. and nordic countries and may in the future also develop in other international markets. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, inc., our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. for example, the demand for our bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of regulatory changes in the european union, including the european union standing committee on the food chain and animal health agreement to allow european union member states the option to eliminate bse testing of healthy cattle at slaughter effective march 2013. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with regulations and policies regarding privacy and protection of user data we offer online client communication tools and services to veterinary practices through pet health network pro, and cloud-based technology through vetconnect plus that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from idexx in-clinic analyzers, our rapid assays and refere nce laboratories in one place. we also engage in e-commerce through the idexx.com website and various international idexx websites. federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from customers, visitors to the websites of our customers and others. in addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles could result in damage to our reputation, or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen and australian dollar, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and expo rted to international markets. approximately 26% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets in recent years has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they 20 continue, could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 42% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 41% and 43% for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. various possible risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters and unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. in addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. our operati ons are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters , system disruptions and security breaches the operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. 21 we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses. any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publ icly disclosed, lost or stolen. if we were to experience a system disruption , attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, or if they expire or are renewed at less favorable terms, our inability to realize these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. 22 restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligatio ns or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . o ur failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior t o their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility. if we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manuf acturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. approximately 26% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for one of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a derivative instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, we were not hedging any specific, significant transactions. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2013. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions. as a result, no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales is to employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchase and sales totaled $168.3 million and $157.0 million at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, respectively . at december 31, 2013, we had $1.0 million in net unrealized gains on foreign currency exchange contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax expense. our foreign currency exchange risk is comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of settled hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2014, excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce operating income by approximately $8 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. 59 in may 2013, we refinanced our existing $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated credit agreement relating to a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $450 million (the credit facility ) with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on may 8, 2018 and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of the credit facility to the extent that the london interbank rate ( libor ) or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate ( cdor ) increases. borrowings under the credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.875 to 1.25 percentage points ( credit spread ) above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate interest rate risk in future periods. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2013 were $277 million at a weighted-average effective interest rate of 1.6%. based on amounts outstanding and our interest rate swap effective at december 31, 2013, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $2.0 million on an annualized basis. beginning on march 30, 2012, the variable interest rate associated with $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.36% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. beginning on march 28, 2013, the variable interest rate associated with an additional $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.64% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges . a t december 31, 2013, we had $1.1 million in unrealized losses, net of income tax benefit, on interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public a nd they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section . while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1983. we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments, consumables and rapid assays ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services; practice management systems and services and digital imaging systems used by veterinarians; biological mat erials testing , laboratory animal diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic, health-monitoring and food safety testing products for livestock, poultry and dairy ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. 4 description of business by segment prior to january 1, 2013, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we continue to refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products for livestock and poultry health, which we referred to as livestock and poultry diagnostics. we also operated two smaller operating segments that comprised products for milk quality and safety ( dairy ) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ). financial information about our dairy and opti medical operating segments was combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an other category because they did not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. in 2013, we combined the management of our livestock and poultry diagnostics, and dairy lines of business to more effectively realize the market synergies between the product lines and to achieve operational efficiencies. we refer to this segment as livestock, poultry and dairy ( lpd ). our opti medical operating segment remains combined and presented with our remaining pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the segment income (loss) from operations discussed within this report for the year ended december 31, 2012 has been retrospectively revised to reflect this change in the composition of our reportable segments. see note 1 4 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2014 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including our product and service categories and our geographic areas . the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2014, sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximate ly 43% of our o verall revenue. these foreign sales accounted for approximately 36%, 52% and 90% of revenue in our cag, water and lpd segments, respectively. see part 1, item 1a. risk factors. and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2014 included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information on revenue from customers outside of the u.s. companion animal group cag provides to veterinarians diagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of pets . the breadth and complementary nature of our products and services comprise a unique competitive advantage that we refer to as the idexx diagnostic advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. the idexx diagnostic advantage improves staff efficiencies and also enables the veterinarian to communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner, which ultimately leads to growing practice revenues. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. 5 integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from all of idexx diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision making . in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarian and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. vetconnect plus is currently available in north america, australia, new zealand, israel and i n numerous countrie throughout europe. in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis and coagulation analyzers, associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we sell three chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst dx and the catalyst one analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by opti medical systems, inc. ( opti medical systems ), one of our wholly- owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by idexx. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers in clude glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein and many others . tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the early detection of renal disease. the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital and fructosamine. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum a nd urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterin arians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our fructosamine test helps veterinarians to manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. we launched a total thyroxine ( t 4 ) test for use with the catalyst one analyzer in february 2015 an d will be introducing a similar test for use with the catalyst dx during the first half of 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. 6 the catalyst one analyzer, launched in november 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic work-flow requirements. the catalyst one analyzer currently offers an expanding menu of 30 tests, including tests for thyroid disease, kidney disease, diabetes and therapeutic drug monitoring. additionally, the instrument is the industry first to combine chemistry, electrolytes and t 4 in a single blood sample run. we also sell two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by opti medical systems. sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and recurring diagnostic revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the first and only in-house analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original lasercyte hematology analyzer and next generation lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx he matology analyzer and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders . the procyte dx analyzer is our premier hematology analyzer, which we launched in 2010. the procyte dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx an alyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for ten companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. in 2012, we began to place procyte dx analyzers containing a more advanced and research-focused user interface with customers in the bioresearch market. immunoassay testing instruments . during the first quarter of 2014, we launched the snap pro mobile d evice , whic h automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the snap pro mobile screen, or via vetconnect plus . in addition, the snap pro mobile d evice improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx a nalyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, snap feline triple test , canine snap heartworm rt test and snap feline probnp test. urinalysis . the i dexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. 7 idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capabili ty. ivls securely connects to the i nternet, and in this way enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services , remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus . we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx, catalyst one, l asercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers , snap pro mobile device and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid a ssays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instru mentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded au tomatically by the snapshot dx a nalyzer or activated and captured automa tically by the snap pro mobile d evice as discu ssed above. the principal snap rapid a ssay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : nap 4dx plus, launched during the second quarter of 2012, which tests for the six vector -borne diseases ; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap 3dx, which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and canine heartworm; snap heartworm rt, which tests for canine hear tworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which tests for canine pancreatitis; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection. single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus, snap 3dx and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. 8 outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, south africa and south korea. we have large reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large courier hubs. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in january 2015, we announced an upcoming kidney test sdma, which utilizes a new renal biomarker to detect the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. we anticipate offering sdma as part of a standard chemistry panel in north america during the summer of 2015. in the spring of 2015, we plan to introduce hookworm and roundworm antigen tests to all fecal panels that already include the whipworm antigen test. these new inte stinal parasite panels detect the p resence of intestinal worms left undiagnosed by current methods, find ing them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. in 2012, we acquired the research and diag nostic laboratory ( radil ) business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri. radil provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe and asia. customer information management and digital imaging systems customer information management . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. our principal practice m anagement systems are cornerstone, dvmax veterina ry practice management software and idexx animana . w e also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice, idex x vpm, idexx vetlink and beefree . our practice management services include cornerstone coaching, practice profile, vetvault backup solution, payment solutions and petdetect pet identification system. in addition, we offer services designed to strength en the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. we commercially launched pet health network pro in march 2013, which is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based service that replaces cumbersome plastic anatomy models with engaging, three-dimension anatomical animations on a desktop or mobile device. using this service in the exam room improves client communication and facilitates adherence to veterinarian recommendations. in sep tember 2014, we acquired petly plans , a cloud-based software solution for veterinary practices to customize, manage and monitor a range of monthly payment preventive care plans for t heir pet owner clients. petly plans complements the pet health network suite of client marketing services by making it easier for practices to increase access to the best care and offer plans that spread the cost of that care including examinations, vaccines and diagnostics over the course of a year rather than payment in full upon each visit . certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. 9 digital imaging systems . our digital imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three digital imaging systems, our la test generation idexx elitevision digital imaging system, the idexx i-vision cr and the idexx i-vision dr system. the newly launched idexx elitevision digital imaging system is a wireless system which uses advanced plate technology to capture clear, high-quality images in a short capture time. the idexx elitevision digital imaging system is promoted for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital imaging systems employ picture archiving and communi cation system ( pacs ) software, idexx-pacs , allowing for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate . this software also permits images from our digital imaging systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. idexx i-vision mobile is an application that allows veterinarians with the i-vision dr and idexx i-vision cr systems, as well as our legacy digital radiography systems, to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs so ftware. in november 2013, we launched the idexx imagebank storage system, a cloud-based image storage solution which provides secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images and is accessible anywhere through vetconnect plus. water we provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for billions of people around the world. our principal products are the coli lert, colilert-18 and colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardi a t esting products. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colil ert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. 10 livestock, poultry and dairy we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic p roducts are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians, producers and processors. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the ani mal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we launched pregnancy tests for detecting pregnancy in bovine, which provides a means to optimize reproductive efficiency. our principal dairy products use our snap test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product line is snap beta-lactam st , which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, a mpicillin, ceftiofur and cephapirin residues, followed by snapduo beta-tetra st , which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the snap beta lactam test kits. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in the third quarter of 2013, we acquired a brazilian distributor of certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy products. as part of this acquisition, we acquired the right to distribute product lines of food safety products which provide microbial monitoring and drug residue tests for bovine, poultry and swine producers, meat exporters and pharmaceutical companies. other opti medical systems through opti medical systems, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer, which launched in april 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations, and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. in addition, opti medical systems manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market, and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst analyzer for our cag segment . other activities in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of cag, and realigned the remainder of the products, comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other segment. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we continue to seek t o commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are also included in the other segment. 11 we earned a milestone payment of $3.5 million in 2012 in connection with the achievement of certain sales milestones by the acquirer of our feline insulin product following commercialization of that product. ee note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2014, included in this annual report on form 10-k, for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business. since realignment to the rapid assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of the two remaining pharmaceutical product lines. neither of these product lines is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the rapid assay line of business. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in all major regions, including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical ervice requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. effective january 1, 2015, we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. prior to januar y 1, 2015 , w e market ed our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force. we market our digital radiography products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u . . , canada, europe and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. historically, our largest customers have been the u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. our two largest cag distributors were henry schein animal health supply, llc ( henry schei n ) and mwi veterinary supply, inc. ( mwi ). henry schein accounted for 8% of our 2014 revenue and 9% of our 2013 and 2012 revenue, and 2 % and 7% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively . mwi accounted for 8% of our 2014, 2013 and 2012 revenue and 8 % and 11% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. effective january 1, 2015, most u.s. distributors are no longer our customers as a result of o ur transition to an all-direct sa les strategy in the u.s. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs , were $98.3 million, $88.0 million and $82.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, or 6.6%, 6.4% and 6.3% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 12 patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our product and offerings, strengthening the company reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. important patents and licenses include: patents concerning the snap immunoassay platform that expire in 2015 ; exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; a n exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2017 ; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2019 ; a p atent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables that expire beginning in 2023; and patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire in 2026. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to the company , a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although the company had and will have several patents expire during 2014 and 2015 , the expiration of these patents, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations. in addition , we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights . to the extent some of our products may now or in the future embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include vettest analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and t 4 slides), lasercyte and lasercyte dx consumables, vetautoread, vetlyte and procyte dx analyzers and consumables and components of our snap pro mobile device. 13 vettest and catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. se veral of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech di agnostics, a unit of vca inc., abaxis, inc., heska corporation and zoetis inc . we also compete in international markets with fujifilm holdings corporation, arkray, inc. and bionote, inc. 14 water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. customer information management and digital imaging systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america where our largest competitor is henry schein. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. government regulation many of ou r products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity marking for their products. 15 water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food safety, medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees as of february 6, 2015, we had approximately 6,400 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com . references to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com . 16 item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this report. our business lines are highly competitive and our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a material negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand and develop our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay kits and instrument consumables ( kits and consumables ) in the u.s.; attracting, developing and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. 17 our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers failure to comply with their contractual obligations. problems with suppliers could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vetlyte e lectrolyte, vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 our business sells many products through distributors, w hich present risks that could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products outside of the u.s. through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products outside the u.s. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failing to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets and new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. with our transition to an all-direct sales strategy for our kits and consumables in the u.s. effective january 1, 2015, we did not renew our distribution agreements with our former key u.s. distribution partners after their expiration at the end of 2014, including exclusive distribution agreements with some of the largest u.s. distributors of companion animal veterinary products. we historically sold significant amounts of our kits and consumables through our former u.s. distribution partners, and two of our previously exclusive u.s. distribution partners joined a third former u.s. distribution partner by beginning to carry competitive instruments, consumables and rapid assay products in the fourth quarter of 2014. the promotion and sale of our competitors products by our former u.s. distribution partners may adversely affect the retention of our customers for our kits and consumables and the sales and distribution of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of many of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda or the epa. our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. 19 we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad, such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. these legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future. in addition, any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could result in fines, penalties and sanctions; suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. increase in corporate hospital ownership and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include banfield pet hospital, national veterinary associates and vca antech, inc. a similar trend exists in other countries, such as in the u.k. and nordic countries and may in the future also develop in other international markets. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, inc., our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. for example, the demand for our bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of regulatory changes in the european union, including the european union standing committee on the food chain and animal health agreement to allow european union member states the option to eliminate bse testing of healthy cattle at slaughter effective march 2013. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products or our services do not comply with regulations and policies regarding privacy and protection of user data we offer products and services that store and use practice and client information, including practice management systems for veterinary practices (e.g., cornerstone), online client communication tools and services (e.g., pet health network pro), and cloud-based technology through vetconnect plus that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from idexx in-clinic analyzers, our rapid assays and reference laboratories in one place. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various idexx websites and collect contact and other personal or identifying information from our customers and visitors to our websites. federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of personal information, including data that we receive from our employees, customers and visitors to our websites and data collected by our customers and others when using our products and services. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future. in addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us or our products and services to protect employee or customer data (including as a result of a breach by or of a third-party provider) or to comply with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles or our posted privacy policies could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen and australian dollar, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and exported to international markets. approximately 28% o f our consolidated revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 26% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. 21 a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2014, approximat ely 43% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 42% and 41% for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters, unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets, security concerns and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. in addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. 22 our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, system disruptions and security breaches the operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses. any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. if we were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. 23 future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in the u.s. and many other international jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, the various tax rates applied to the earnings of our activities are subject to significant change. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. also, we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligatio ns or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . o ur failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility. if we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates is not a measure defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ), otherwise referred to herein as a non-gaap financial measure. as exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results normalized for changes in currency in addition to reported results helps improve investors ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. 43 effective january 1, 2014, we calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable previous year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. prior to january 1, 2014, we calculated this impact by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable previous year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the current year period. this change in methodology, which was implemented to achieve operational efficiencies, has not had a material impact on organic revenue growth. see the subsection below titled results of operations for the definition of and other information regarding organic revenue growth. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2014, compared to the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased total company revenue by approximately $8.3 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the canadian dollar, australian dollar and japanese yen, partly offset by a weakening of the u.s. dollar against the british pound. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, compared to the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased total company revenue by approximately $9.5 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen and the australian dollar. effects of economic conditions . demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, including slow economic growth, high unemployment and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, digital radiography and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although limited and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. we believe the overall trends in patient visits and capital investments since the beginning of the economic downturn in 2008 have had a slightly negative impact on our cag segment revenue growth rates. although the rate of growth has not been steady, we have seen an improvement in growth of patient visits since the beginning of 2012. economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. in the past, water testing volumes have been susceptible to declines in discretionary testing and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and livestock testing programs. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. effects of patent expiration . although the company had and will have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties expire during 2014 and 2015, the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations due to a range of factors including our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; and our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings. 44 twelve months ended december 31, 2014 compared to twelve months ended december 31, 2013 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and therefore can also obscure underlying business trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,236,855 $ 1,150,169 $ 86,686 7.5% (0.8%) 0.3% 8.0% water 94,725 87,959 6,766 7.7% (0.4%) 1.0% 7.1% lpd 127,388 113,811 13,577 11.9% (0.7%) 4.0% 8.6% other 26,839 25,119 1,720 6.8% - - 6.8% total $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 $ 108,749 7.9% (0.7%) 0.6% 8.0% w e transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourt h quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced both reported cag and total company revenue growth by 2 % . u.s. and international revenue. the following table provides further analysis of total company revenue by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international, markets: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth united states $ 848,925 $ 802,346 $ 46,579 5.8% - 0.1% 5.7% international 636,882 574,712 62,170 10.8% (1.7%) 1.3% 11.2% total $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 $ 108,749 7.9% (0.7%) 0.6% 8.0% the increase in both u.s. and international revenues was primarily driven by cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in international revenues was driven by stron g growth in europe and asia-pacific markets, most significantly from the united kingdom, germany, china, australia and france. w e transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourt h quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced reported u.s. revenue growth by 3%. the impact of changes in distributors inventory levels did not have a significant impact on reported international revenue growth. 45 companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,053,410 $ 973,886 $ 79,524 8.2% (0.7%) 0.3% 8.6% vetlab consumables 341,397 312,457 28,940 9.3% (0.6%) - 9.9% vetlab service and accessories 53,383 50,675 2,708 5.3% (0.8%) - 6.1% rapid assay products 165,647 169,547 (3,900) (2.3%) (0.4%) - (1.9%) reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 492,983 441,207 51,776 11.7% (0.9%) 0.5% 12.1% cag diagnostics capital instruments 79,626 83,492 (3,866) (4.6%) (1.2%) - (3.4%) customer information management and digital imaging systems 103,819 92,791 11,028 11.9% (0.5%) 0.5% 11.9% net cag revenue $ 1,236,855 $ 1,150,169 $ 86,686 7.5% (0.8%) 0.3% 8.0% the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to increased volumes and higher realized prices in both our reference laboratory diagn ostic services and our vetlab consumables. t he drawdown of inventory held by distributors , as a result of our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014 , reduced reported cag diagnostics recurring revenue by 3%. vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher unit volumes. the increase in unit volumes resulted primarily from growth of ou r installed base of catalyst and procyte dx instruments as a result of new customer acquisitions, as well as an increase in testing from existing customers, including those who upgraded to these instruments. a dditionally, vetlab consumables revenue benefited from higher average unit sales prices resulting from price increases . these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower consumables volumes from our vettest chemistry instrument as customers continue to upgrade from our vettest instrument to our catalyst instrument s. the drawdown of inventory held by distributors , resulting from our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, reduced reported consumables revenue growth by 5%. vetlab service and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our installed base of instruments. the decrease in rapid assay revenue was due primarily to the drawdown of inventory held by distributors as we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, which reduced reported rapid assay revenue growth by 7%. this unfavorable factor was partly offset by higher sales of both our canine and feline testing products, resulting from both an increase in u.s. practice-level sales volumes and higher average unit sales prices. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories resulting from increased testing from existing customers, the acquisition of new customers and improved customer retention. additionally, the increase in revenue was favorably impacted by higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. 46 the decrease in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue was due primarily to the unfavorable impact of deferred revenue associated with preorders for our catalyst one analyzer, which we launched du ring the fourth quarter of 2014 and the impact of lower realized prices. u nder our catalyst one introductory offer, customers are provided with the right to use a catalyst dx instrument through the catalyst one delivery date. as a result, we do not recognize instrument revenue for preorders relating to the catalyst one introductory offer until the catalyst one is delivered . these unfavorable impacts were partly offset by higher placements of our catalyst dx and procyte dx instruments, primarily in europe and the asia-pacific region, and placements of our snap pro mobile device in north america . for the year ended december 31, 2014, the majority of snap pro mobile device placements were made under a reagent rental program for which instrument revenue will be recognized with the future sale of consumables. the increase in customer information management and digital imaging systems revenue was due primarily to a growing pet health network pro subscriber base, higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our installed base of digital imaging and practi ce management systems and higher revenue from hardware upgrades as a result of microsoft ending support for windows xp . water. the increase in water revenue resulted from higher revenue from our colilert products and related acce ssories, due primarily to increased sales volumes worldwide resulting from the acquisition of new customers. live stock, poultry and dairy. the increase in lpd organic revenue was due primarily to higher sales of certain bovine test products in the asia-pacific region, higher volumes in europe of our milk-based bovine pregnancy test and higher sales of poultry tests in europe and latin america. lower european bovine volumes are expected to reduce revenue by less than $5 million for t he year ending december 31, 2015 . the acquisition of a brazilian distributor of our lpd products in the third quarter of 2013 added 4% to reported revenue growth for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. other. the increase in other revenue was due primarily to higher milestone revenue from our pharmaceutical out-licensing arrangements earned during the year ended december 31, 201 4 and higher sales volumes associated with our opti medical consumables and pharmaceutical product line. these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower sales of our opti medical instrument in latin america. gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 665,477 53.8% $ 616,335 53.6% $ 49,142 8.0% water 62,924 66.4% 58,218 66.2% 4,706 8.1% lpd 79,239 62.2% 62,534 54.9% 16,705 26.7% other 14,236 53.0% 12,650 50.4% 1,586 12.5% unallocated amounts (1) (5,760) n/a 6,381 n/a (12,141) (190.3%) total company $ 816,116 54.9% $ 756,118 54.9% $ 59,998 7.9% (1) unallocated amounts refers to items not allocated to our operating segments, including a portion of corporate support function and personnel-related expenses, certain manufacturing costs, corporate research and development expenses that do not align with one of our existing business or service categories, the difference between estimated and actual share-based compensation expense and certain foreign currency exchange gains and losses. companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales and a slight increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in gross profit percentage was due primarily to lower overall vetlab product costs and price increases across our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio. these favorable factors were partly offset by impacts related to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, including an unfavorable product mix resulting from the inventory drawdown of high er margin rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables from our u.s. distributors and higher freight and distribution costs. 47 water. gross profit for water increased due primarily to higher sales. the slight increase in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to a more favorable product mix resulting from higher relative sales of our colilert products which yield higher m argins, lower overall manufacturing costs resulting from a decrease in materials costs and higher average unit sales prices due to price increases . these favorable factors were partly offset by the unfavorable impact of currency due primarily to lower relative hedging gains during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd increased due to an improvement in the gross profit percentage to 62% from 55% and higher sales. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from lower overall manufacturing costs , driven by higher production volumes , a decrease in royalty expense and higher average unit sales prices . the decrease in r oyalty expense was due primarily to an agreement executed in the first quarter of 2014 with a licensor of patents related to the sale of certain swine tests. other. gross profit for ot her increased due to higher sales and an improvement in the gross profit percentage to 53% from 50%. the increase in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs in our opti medical business , resulting from a reduction in material costs and higher production volumes , and an increase in milestone revenue related to our pharmaceutical out-licensing arrangements, for wh ich there is no associated costs of revenue. these favorable factors were partly offset by higher cost of service associated with opti medical instruments and a decrease in average unit sales prices on related consumables. unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts decreased due primarily to an increase in certain manufacturing costs and changes in certain currency exchange rates. the manufacturing costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold and any variances from standard cost for products purchased or manufactured within the period. we capitalize these variances for inventory on hand at the end of the period to record inventory in accordance with u.s. gaap. we then record these variances as cost of product revenue as that inventory is sold. the impact to cost of product revenue resulting from this variance capitalization and subsequent recognition is reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the net unfavorable impact to gross profit as a result of increased manufacturing costs was due to the capitalization of favorable manufacturing variances, primarily within our lpd business, during the year ended december 31, 2014. in certain geographies where we maintain inventories in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, the product costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold, which is stated at the budgeted currency exchange rate from the beginning of the fiscal year. in these geographies, the variances from standard cost for products sold related to changes in currency exchange rates are reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the u.s. dollar strengthened significantly against the japanese yen during the year ended december 31, 201 3. the strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen during the year ended december 31, 2014 was less significant, as compared to the prior year, resulting in a lower favorable variance within unallocated amounts relating to the cost of products sold in japanese yen. operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 452,368 36.6% $ 397,690 34.6% $ 54,678 13.7% water 23,662 25.0% 20,897 23.8% 2,765 13.2% lpd 55,024 43.2% 48,375 42.5% 6,649 13.7% other 11,757 43.8% 10,245 40.8% 1,512 14.8% unallocated amounts 13,050 n/a 12,149 n/a 901 7.4% total company $ 555,861 37.4% $ 489,356 35.5% $ 66,505 13.6% 48 for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 213,109 17.2% $ 218,645 19.0% $ (5,536) (2.5%) water 39,262 41.4% 37,321 42.4% 1,941 5.2% lpd 24,215 19.0% 14,159 12.4% 10,056 71.0% other 2,479 9.2% 2,405 9.6% 74 3.1% unallocated amounts (18,810) n/a (5,768) n/a (13,042) (226.1%) total company $ 260,255 17.5% $ 266,762 19.4% $ (6,507) (2.4%) the transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. within our cag segment reduced operating profit by $35.3 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. these impacts consisted of a one-time reduction in operating profit related to the drawdown of inventory held by our u.s. distributors, which reduced operating income by $20.8 million, $5.0 million in incremental expenses related to the ramp up of sales and operating resources and approximately $9.5 million of non-recurring expenses during the year ended december 31, 2014. for the year e nded december 31, 2014, adjusted operating income, which is t otal company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned transit ion impacts was approximately $295.6 million and 19.6 % of revenue, which represents an increase in adjust ed operating income of $24.7 million and 9.1 %, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, which is adjusted for the 2013 bankruptcy of a third-party service pro vider of approximately $4.1 million. adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories for details regarding anticipated transitional costs related to moving to an all-direct sales strategy for vetlab consumables and rapid assay products and services within our cag segment in the u.s. companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 244,414 19.8% $ 208,991 18.2% $ 35,423 16.9% general and administrative 137,675 11.1% 125,877 10.9% 11,798 9.4% research and development 70,279 5.7% 62,822 5.5% 7,457 11.9% total operating expenses $ 452,368 36.6% $ 397,690 34.6% $ 54,678 13.7% the increase in sales and marketing expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs across all major regions, including our north american sales force transformation started in the second half of 2013 and increased commissions resulting from improved sales performance; and non-recurring consulting costs related to the aforementioned implementation of an all-direct sales strategy in the u. s. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and, to a lesser extent, depreciation of internal-use software, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates . the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher person nel-related costs and increased materials costs, partly offset by lower external consulting and development costs. 49 water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 11,494 12.1% $ 9,942 11.3% $ 1,552 15.6% general and administrative 9,226 9.7% 8,398 9.5% 828 9.9% research and development 2,942 3.1% 2,557 2.9% 385 15.1% total operating expenses $ 23,662 25.0% $ 20,897 23.8% $ 2,765 13.2% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and incremental spending on promotional activities. personnel-related costs included commissions related to improved sales performance, and incremental costs associated with the acquisition of our distributor in south africa in the fourth qu arter of 2013. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs. th e increase in research and development expense was due primarily to higher materials costs. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 25,144 19.7% $ 20,972 18.4% $ 4,172 19.9% general and administrative 16,870 13.2% 14,855 13.1% 2,015 13.6% research and development 13,010 10.2% 12,548 11.0% 462 3.7% total operating expenses $ 55,024 43.2% $ 48,375 42.5% $ 6,649 13.7% the increase in sales and marketing expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs, including incremental costs associated with the acquisition of a brazilian distributor in the third quarter of 2013 and com mercial team investments worldwide, most significantly in the asia-pacific region. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted from incremental costs associated with the acquisition of the brazilian distributor, prima rily personnel-related costs and higher amortization of the acquired intangible assets. the increase in research and development expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs. other. operating expenses for other increased $1.5 million to $11.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the pri or year due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and an increase in external development and consulting costs in our opti medical line of business. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments increased by $0.9 million to $13.1 millio n for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, due primarily to cer tain foreign exchange losses and an increase in certain personnel-related costs . these unfavorable factors were partly offset by the absence of a $4.1 million loss incurred during the year ended december 31, 2013 resulting from the bankruptcy of a freight payment and audit service provider. over the second half of 2014, the u.s. dollar experienced a continued and persistent strengthening relative to all major foreign currencies in which we transact , resulting in realized and unrealized losses on monetary assets, partly offset by gains on liabilities denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate the estimated expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. 50 interest income and interest expense interest income was $1.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $1.9 million for the prior year . the decrease in interest income resulted from our june 2014 disposition of a debt investment and repayment of the related notes receivable, partly offset by increased interest income earned on higher average cash balances. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the disposition of this strategic investment. interest expense was $15.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to $5.4 million for the prior year. the increase in interest expense was due primarily to senior notes that we issued and sold through three private placements between december 2013 and september 2014 in an aggregate principal amount of $350 million. fixed interest rates on the senior notes range from 3.32% to 4.04%. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. provision for income taxes our effective income tax rate was 26.2% for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 28.7% for the year ended december 31, 2013. the decrease in our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, was related to higher relative earnings subject to international tax rates that are lower than domestic tax rates, a non-recurring benefit related to the deferral of intercompany profits that were included in prior year tax provisions in error, which is not material to current or prior interim or annual periods, and the resolution of domestic and international tax audits, which resulted in a net reduction in our provision for uncertain tax positions. these favorable factors were partly offset by a reduction in the benefit from the u.s. research and development ( r&amp;d ) tax credit. during the three months ended march 31, 2013, legislation in the u.s. retroactively allowed the r&amp;d tax credit for all of 2012 and extended the r&amp;d tax credit through the year ending december 31, 2013. as a result, in the year ending december 31, 2013 we recorded the benefit of two years of r&amp;d tax credit as compared to the year ending december 31, 2014 in which we have recorded only the benefit related to that year activities. in 2015, it is reasonably possible that we could recognize up to $0.4 million of income tax benefits that have not been recognized at december 31, 2014. the income tax benefits are primarily due to the lapse in the statutes of limitations for various tax jurisdictions. twelve months ended december 31, 2013 compared to twelve months ended december 31, 2012 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the p ercentage change in revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and therefore can also obscure underlying business trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. 51 total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2013 2012 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,150,169 $ 1,072,211 $ 77,958 7.3% (0.8%) 0.3% 7.8% water 87,959 84,680 3,279 3.9% (0.6%) 0.3% 4.2% lpd 113,811 111,308 2,503 2.2% 0.2% 2.6% (0.6%) other 25,119 25,139 (20) (0.1%) 0.1% - (0.2%) total $ 1,377,058 $ 1,293,338 $ 83,720 6.5% (0.7%) 0.5% 6.7% u.s. and international revenue. the following table provides further analysis of total company revenue by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international, markets: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2013 2012 change change currency acquisitions growth united states $ 802,346 $ 759,419 $ 42,927 5.7% - 0.5% 5.2% international 574,712 533,919 40,793 7.6% (1.8%) 0.7% 8.7% total $ 1,377,058 $ 1,293,338 $ 83,720 6.5% (0.7%) 0.5% 6.7% the increase in both u.s. and international revenues was primarily driven by cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in international revenues was driven by strong growth in europe and asia-pacific markets, most significantly within the nordic countries as a result of our move to a direct sales model in this region during the first quarter of 2013, germany and china. the impact of changes in distributors inventory levels reduced u.s . revenue growth by approximately 1% and did not have a significant impact on reported international revenue growth. companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2013 2012 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 973,886 $ 896,449 $ 77,437 8.6% (0.8%) 0.1% 9.3% vetlab consumables 312,457 278,818 33,639 12.1% (0.7%) - 12.8% vetlab service and accessories 50,675 48,056 2,619 5.4% (2.5%) - 7.9% rapid assay products 169,547 162,232 7,315 4.5% (0.7%) - 5.2% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 441,207 407,343 33,864 8.3% (0.8%) 0.3% 8.8% cag diagnostics capital instruments 83,492 90,177 (6,685) (7.4%) (1.5%) - (5.9%) customer information management and digital imaging systems 92,791 85,585 7,206 8.4% (0.3%) 3.1% 5.6% net cag revenue $ 1,150,169 $ 1,072,211 $ 77,958 7.3% (0.8%) 0.3% 7.8% the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue is due primarily to increased volumes and higher realized prices in both our reference laboratory diagnostic services and our vetlab consumables. 52 vetlab consumables revenue growth was due to higher unit volumes and higher realized prices. the increase in unit volumes resulted primarily from growth of our installed base for our catalyst dx and procyte dx instruments as a result of customer acquisitions, as well as an increase in testing from existing customers who upgraded to these instruments, partially offset by lower sales of consumables used with our vettest chemistry instrument. higher realized prices were the result of changes in certain distributor arrangements and list price increases. the impact of changes in distributors inventory levels reduced reported consumables revenue growth by approximately 1%. vetlab service and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. the increase in rapid assay product revenue was due primarily to both higher unit volumes and higher realized prices resulting from price increases and a change in a distributor arrangement. higher sales volumes were driven by an increase in u.s. canine practice-level sales volumes and increased volumes of our canine pancreatitis products. the impact of changes in distributors inventory levels did not have a significant impact on revenue growth. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue resulted from the impact of both increased testing volumes and price increases. higher testing volumes were driven by the acquisition of new customers, increased testing volumes from existing customers and improved customer retention. the decrease in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue was due primarily to the impact of customer programs. the impact from customer programs includes a reagent rental program that we launched in north america during the fourth quarter of 2012. under the reagent rental program, vetlab instrument revenue is recognized over the term of the minimum purchase agreement instead of at the time we place the instrument. the increase in customer information management and digital imaging systems revenue resulted primarily from higher support revenue due to an increase in our active installed base and revenue from pet health network pro, which launched commercially in the first quarter of 2013. these favorable factors were partly offset by a decrease in digital radiography system placements. water. the increase in water revenue was due primarily to higher sales volumes of our colilert products and related accessories in europe and north america, driven by new account acquisitions and higher average unit sales prices. livestock, poultry and dairy. the decrease in lpd revenue resulted primarily from lower sales volumes of bse tests resulting from changes in european testing requirements and a reduction in sales volumes of our dairy snap tests used for the detection of the contaminant aflatoxin m1 and antibiotic residues in milk. in early 2012, dairy snap sales volumes were favorably impacted by testing as a result of an aflatoxin m1 outbreak in china; testing volumes in china subsided over the remainder of 2012. these unfavorable factors were partly offset by higher sales of certain bovine tests resulting from increased testing levels from government programs and higher sales volumes of certain poultry and swine tests. other. other revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013 was generally consistent with the prior year as lower sales volumes associated with our pharmaceutical product line were almost entirely offset by higher sales volumes of consumables and accessories used with our opti medical instruments. 53 gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change cag $ 616,335 53.6% $ 561,043 52.3% $ 55,292 9.9% water 58,218 66.2% 56,133 66.3% 2,085 3.7% lpd 62,534 54.9% 66,166 59.4% (3,632) (5.5%) other 12,650 50.4% 10,645 42.3% 2,005 18.8% unallocated amounts 6,381 n/a 5,161 n/a 1,220 23.6% total company $ 756,118 54.9% $ 699,148 54.1% $ 56,970 8.1% companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales and an increase in the gross profit percentage to 54% from 52%. the increase in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to price increases for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services, vetlab consumables and, to a lesser extent, rapid assay products and volume-related efficiencies realized throughout our reference laboratory operations. water. gross profit for water increased due primarily to higher sales. the gross profit percentage for the year ended december 31, 2013 was generally consistent with the prior year, as the unfavorable impact of currency was mostly offset by higher average unit sales prices. the unfavorable impact of currency was due primarily to hedging losses during the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to hedging gains during the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd decreased due to a decrease in the gross profit percentage to 55% from 59%, partly offset by higher sales. the decrease in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to higher overall manufacturing costs and the unfavorable impact of currency. higher manufacturing costs were due primarily to an increase in materials costs and lower production volumes in certain product lines. the unfavorable impact of currency was due primarily to hedging losses during the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to hedging gains during the prior year. other. gross profit for other increased due to an increase in the gross profit percentage to 50% from 42%, due primarily to lower overall opti medical manufacturing costs resulting from a reduction in materials costs and higher relative sales of consumables used with our opti medical instruments and milestone and royalty revenue earned from our remaining pharmaceutical out-licensing arrangements, both of which yield higher relative margins. unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts increased due primarily to changes in certain currency exchange rates and a decrease in certain manufacturing costs, partly offset by an increase in personnel-related costs. in certain geographies where we maintain inventories in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, the product costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold, which is stated at the budgeted currency exchange rate from the beginning of the fiscal year. in these geographies, the variances from standard cost for products sold related to changes in currency exchange rates are reported within the caption unallocated amounts. for the year ended december 31, 2013, these variances were due primarily to the cost of products sold in japanese yen. the manufacturing costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold and any variances from standard cost for products purchased or manufactured within the period. we capitalize these variances for inventory on hand at the end of the period to record inventory in accordance with u.s. gaap. we then record these variances as cost of product revenue as that inventory is sold. the impact to cost of product revenue resulting from this variance capitalization and subsequent recognition is reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the decrease in certain manufacturing costs is due primarily to the recognition of previously favorable capitalized variances. 54 we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate the estimated expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the increase in personnel-related costs for unallocated amounts is due primarily to higher self-insured healthcare costs during the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the prior year. operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change cag $ 397,690 34.6% $ 357,807 33.4% $ 39,883 11.1% water 20,897 23.8% 18,446 21.8% 2,451 13.3% lpd 48,375 42.5% 45,358 40.7% 3,017 6.7% other 10,245 40.8% 7,743 30.8% 2,502 32.3% unallocated amounts 12,149 n/a 7,231 n/a 4,918 68.0% total company $ 489,356 35.5% $ 436,585 33.8% $ 52,771 12.1% for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change cag $ 218,645 19.0% $ 203,236 19.0% $ 15,409 7.6% water 37,321 42.4% 37,687 44.5% (366) (1.0%) lpd 14,159 12.4% 20,808 18.7% (6,649) (32.0%) other 2,405 9.6% 2,902 11.5% (497) (17.1%) unallocated amounts (5,768) n/a (2,070) n/a (3,698) (178.6%) total company $ 266,762 19.4% $ 262,563 20.3% $ 4,199 1.6% companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 208,991 18.2% $ 186,287 17.4% $ 22,704 12.2% general and administrative 125,877 10.9% 115,266 10.8% 10,611 9.2% research and development 62,822 5.5% 56,254 5.2% 6,568 11.7% total operating expenses $ 397,690 34.6% $ 357,807 33.4% $ 39,883 11.1% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs from investment in our commercial organizations in all major regions, including the completion of our north american sales force expansion and associated marketing and consulting costs related to this transformation. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from increased personnel-related costs and an increase in costs attributable to investments in information technology. the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and an increase in consulting and external development costs. water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 9,942 11.3% $ 9,398 11.1% $ 544 5.8% general and administrative 8,398 9.5% 6,546 7.7% 1,852 28.3% research and development 2,557 2.9% 2,502 3.0% 55 2.2% total operating expenses $ 20,897 23.8% $ 18,446 21.8% $ 2,451 13.3% 55 the increase in sales and marketing and general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs. research and development expense for the year ended december 31, 2013 was generally consistent with the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2013 revenue 2012 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 20,972 18.4% $ 18,517 16.6% $ 2,455 13.3% general and administrative 14,855 13.1% 14,388 12.9% 467 3.2% research and development 12,548 11.0% 12,453 11.2% 95 0.8% total operating expenses $ 48,375 42.5% $ 45,358 40.7% $ 3,017 6.7% the increase in sales and marketing expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs , including costs associated with the acquisition of a brazilian distributor, and increased spending on promotional activities in the asia - pacific region. the increase in general and administrative expense was due primarily to costs associated with the acquisition and integration of the brazilian distributor, a portion of which will not recur, partly offset by lower personnel-related costs and a decrease in intangible asset amortization. research and development expense during the year ended december 31, 2013 was generally consistent with the prior year. other. operating expenses for other increased $2.5 million to $10.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, due primarily to a $3.5 million milestone payment earned during the year ended december 31, 2012 related to the 2008 sale of product rights previously included in our pharmaceutical product line, partly offset by lower personnel-related costs in our opti medical line of business. the pharmaceutical milestone payment was not classified as revenue because the transaction was accounted for as the sale of a business; rather it was reflected as a reduction to general and administrative expenses as earned. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments increased $4.9 million to $12.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year due primarily to losses incurred resulting from the bankruptcy of a freight payment and audit service provider ( freight service company ), partly offset by lower legal and other professional fees incurred as a result of the resolution of the ftc investigation in february 2013 and proceeds received during 2013 in connection with the demutualization of an insurance provider. in march 2013, the freight service company provided notice to us that all freight payment services would cease immediately and that certain amounts paid by us to the freight service company were not subsequently remitted to our freight carriers due to an employee fraud and a breakdown in internal controls, both at the freight service company, concluding in significant losses and the resulting bankruptcy. in response, we recorded a $3.9 million loss related to these unremitted amounts in general and administrative expense during the year ended december 31, 2013. we continue to monitor the freight service company bankruptcy proceeding, but we cannot be certain of any recovery at this time. interest income and interest expense interest income was $1.9 million for both the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012. interest expense was $5.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $3.8 million for the same period of the prior year. the increase in interest expense was due primarily to higher average balances outstanding on our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes that we issued and sold through a private placement in an aggregate amount of $150 million in december 2013. the senior notes consist of $75 million of 3.94% series a senior notes due december 11, 2023 and $75 million of 4.04% series b senior notes due december 11, 2025. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our senior notes. 56 provision for income taxes our effective income tax rate was 28.7% for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 31.6% for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease in our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2012, was due primarily to the research and development ( r&amp;d ) tax credit. for the year ended december 31, 2012, the u.s. legislation authorizing the r&amp;d tax credit had expired and no associated tax benefit was recognized within this period. on january 2, 2013, u.s. federal legislation was enacted that retroactively allowed an r&amp;d tax credit for all of 2012 and extended the r&amp;d tax credit through the year ending december 31, 2013. because the related legislation was enacted in 2013, the full benefit of the r&amp;d tax credit related to the prior year activities was recognized in 2013. in addition, higher relative earnings subject to international tax rates that are lower than domestic tax rates also contributed to the decrease in our effective income tax rate. recent accounting pronouncements a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements is included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2014 included in this annual report on form 10-k. liquidity and capital resources we fund the capital needs of our business through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, and amounts available under our unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refinanced in june 2014 by entering into an amended and restated five-year unsecu red revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $700 million (the amended and restated credit facility and the previous credit facility are referred to collectively as the credit facility ). in addition, we issued $150 million, $125 million, $75 million and $150 million of our senior notes in december 2013, july 2014, september 2014 and february 2015, respectively. at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, we had $322.5 million and $279.1 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents, and negative working capi tal of ($61.5) million and working capital of $174.4 million, respectively. additionally, at december 31, 201 4 , we had remaining borrowing availabilit y of $150 million under our $700 million credit facility. we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain additional borrowings at similar rates to our existing borrowings to fund our growth objectives. we further believe that current cash and cash equivalents, funds generated from operations, a nd committed borrowing availability will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital purc hase requirements, and anticipated growth needs for the next twelve months. we believe that t hese resources , coupled with our ability, as needed, to obtain additional financing on favorable terms will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our business as currently conducted. we consider the majority of the operating earnings of certain non-u.s. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the u.s. no provision has been made for the payment of u.s. federal and state or international taxes that may result from future remittances of these undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. changes to this position could have adverse tax consequences. a determination of the related tax liability that would be paid on these undistributed earnings if repatriated is not practicable. we manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among all of our subsidiaries. our foreign cash balances are generally available without restrictions to fund o rdinary business operations outside the u.s. of our total cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2014, approximately $321.5 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was subject to material repatriation tax effects . as of december 31, 2014, 64 % of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities and 36 % was held as bank deposits. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 66% of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries was held in u.s. dollars. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the u.s. through debt or equity issuances. these alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates or increased interest expense and other dilution of our earnings. we have borrowed funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. 57 the following table presents additional key information concerning working capital: for the three months ended december 31, september 30, june 30, march 31, december 31, 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 days sales outstanding (1) 40.6 39.2 40.8 42.8 39.9 inventory turns (2) 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.9 (1) days sales outstanding represents the average of the accounts receivable balances at the beginning and end of each quarter divided by revenue for that quarter, the result of which is then multiplied by 91.25 days. (2) inventory turns represent inventory-related cost of product revenue for the 12 months preceding each quarter-end divided by the inventory balance at the end of the quarter. sources and uses of cash the following table presents cash provided (used): for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 dollar change net cash provided by operating activities $ 235,846 $ 245,996 $ (10,150) net cash used by investing activities (80,413) (86,059) 5,646 net cash used by financing activities (103,438) (102,451) (987) net effect of changes in exchange rates on cash (8,517) (2,414) (6,103) net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 43,478 $ 55,072 $ (11,594) operating activities. cash provided b y operating activities was $235.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $246.0 million for the same period in 201 3 . the total of net income and net non-cash charges, excluding the impact of reclassifying the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements to a financ ing activity, was $261.6 million for the year ended dece mber 31, 2014 compared to $263.2 mil lion for the same period in 2013 , resulting in a reduction in operating cash flows of $1.6 million driven primarily by the de crease in net income, partly offset by higher depreciation and amortization. the total of changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arra ngements decreased cash by $25.8 million during the year ended december 31, 201 4 , compared to a decrease of $17.2 million for the year ended december 31, 201 3 , resulting in an incr emental increase in cash of $8.6 million. the following table presents cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 dollar change accounts receivable $ (3,626) $ (15,946) $ 12,320 inventories (38,310) (1,347) (36,963) other assets (25,073) (4,325) (20,748) accounts payable 6,703 (4,399) 11,102 accrued liabilities 36,392 16,512 19,880 deferred revenue 14,195 6,442 7,753 tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements (16,078) (14,158) (1,920) total change in cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements $ (25,797) $ (17,221) $ (8,576) 58 the incremental cash used by inventory during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year was due primarily to support higher expected demand for our cag diagnostic instruments, as well as higher inventory levels for our kits and consumables to support our all-direct strategy in the u.s. the increase in cash used by other assets during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year was due primarily to higher income taxes receivable resulting from the tax increase prevention act that was enacted late in the year and the deferred cost of catalyst instrument placements under our catalyst one introductory offer launched in the first quarter of 2014. the tax increase prevention act retroactively extended the r&amp;d tax credit and bonus depreciation and reduced our income taxes due related to the year ended december 31, 20 14. the increase in cash provided by accrued liabilities during the year ended december 31, 2014 was greater than the prior year due primarily to the timing of income tax payments, higher accruals related to employee incenti ve programs, co ntingent consideration related to business combinations and accrued interest related to higher borrowings under our senior notes at december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year end. the decrease in cash used by accounts receivable during the year ended december 31, 2014 resulted pri marily from the impact of lower revenues in the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 related to our all-direct strategy in the u.s . t he in crease in cash provided by accounts payable during the year ended december 31 , 2014 as compared to the prior year was due primarily to the timing of vendor payments. the incremental cash provided by deferred re venue for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year was due primarily to sales under our catalyst one introductory offer . we historicall y have experienced proportionally lower net cash flows from operating activities during the first quarter and proportionally higher cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of the year and for the annual period driven primarily by payments related to annual employee incentive programs in the first quarter following the year for which the bonuses were earned and the seasonality of vector-borne disease testing, which has historically resulted in significant increases in accounts receivable balances during the first quarter of the year. investing activities. cash used by investing activities was $80.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $86.1 million for the same period in 2013. the decrease in cash used by investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 was due primar ily to reduced capital expenditures, resulting from the completion of our headquarters facility expansion in august 2013, partly offset by incremental cash used to acquire businesses during the year ended december 31, 2014. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our business acquisitions. our total capital expenditure plan for 2015 is e stimated to be approximately $85 million, which includes capital investments in manufacturing and reference laboratory equipment, investments in internal use software and inform ation technology infrastructure and the renovation and expansion of our facilities and reference laboratories. financing activities. cash used by financing activities was $103.4 million fo r the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to cash used of $102.5 mil lion for the same period in 2013. the increase in cash used to repurchase common stock was offset by higher relative net borrowings under the credit facility and a $50 million increase in the issuance of long-term debt during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. 59 cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock increased by $250.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the prior year. from the inception of our share repurchase program in august 1999 to december 31, 2014 , we have repurchased 53.9 millio n shares. during the year ended december 31, 2014, we purchased 4.9 million shares for an aggregate cost of $618.2 million compared to purchases of 4.0 million shares for an aggregate cost of $367.8 million during 2013. we believe that the repurchase of our common stock is a favorable means of returning value to our shareholders and we also repurchase our stock to offset the dilutive effect of our share-based compensation programs. repurchases of our common stock may vary depending upon the level of other investing activities and the share price. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our share repurchases. as noted above, in june 2014, we refinanced our existing $450 million credit facility and increased the principal amount thereunder to $700 million. the credit facility matures on june 18, 2019 and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. although the credit facility does not mature until june 18, 2019, all individual borrowings under the terms of the credit facility have a stated term between 30 and 180 days. at the end of each term, the obligation is either repaid or rolled over into a new borrowing. the credit facility contains a subjective material adverse event clause, which allows the debt holders to call the loans under the credit facility if we fail to provide prompt written notice to the syndicate of such an event. based on the stated term and the existence of the subjective material adverse event clause, this credit facility is reflected in the current liabilities section of our consolidated balance sheets. applicable interest rates on borrowings under the credit facility generally range from 0.875 to 1.375 percentage points above the london interbank offered rate or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate, based on our leverage ratio, or the prevailing prime rate plus a maximum spread of up to 0.375%, based on our leverage ratio. net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in incremental cash provided of $207 .0 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the prior year. at december 31, 2014 , we had $549 .0 million outstanding under the credit facility. the general availability of funds under the credit facility was further reduced by $1.0 million for a letter of credit that was issued in connection with claims under our workers compensation policy. the credit facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of subsidiaries of the company, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates and certain restrictive agreements. the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2014, we were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility. the obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness, cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness and a change of control default. in december 2013, we issued and sold through a private placement an aggregate principal amount of $150 million of senior notes consisting of $75 million of 3.94% series a senior notes due december 11, 2023 (the 2023 notes ) and $75 million of 4.04% series b senior notes due december 11, 2025 (the 2025 notes and together with the 2023 notes, the december notes ) under a note purchase agreement among the company, new york life insurance company and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein (the december 2013 note agreement ). in july 2014, we issued and sold through a private placement an aggregate principal amount of $125 million of senior notes consisting of $75 million of 3.76% series b senior notes due july 21, 2024 (the 2024 notes ) and $50 million of 3.32% series a senior notes due july 21, 2021 (the 2021 notes and together with the 2024 notes, the prudential notes ) under a note purchase and private shelf agreement among the company, prudential investment management, inc. and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein (the july 2014 note agreement ). 60 in september 2014, we issued and sold through a private placement an aggregate principal amount of $75 million of 3.72% senior notes due september 4, 2026 (the 2026 notes and together with the prudential notes and the december notes, the senior notes ) under a note purchase agreement dated as of july 22, 2014 among the company, new york life insurance company and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein (such agreement, together with july 2014 note agreement and december 2013 note agreement, the senior note agreements ). the senior note agreements contain affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for agreements of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of our subsidiaries, priority indebtedness, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates, certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations. the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation, as defined in the senior note agreements, not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2014, we were in compliance with the covenants of the senior note agreements. should we elect to prepay the senior notes, such aggregate prepayment will include the applicable make-whole amount(s), as defined within the applicable senior note agreements. additionally, in the event of a change in control of the company or upon the disposition of certain assets of the company the proceeds of which are not reinvested (as defined in the senior note agreements), we may be required to prepay all or a portion of the senior notes. the obligations under the senior notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the applicable senior note agreement, each of which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness and cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness . other commitments, contingencies and guarantees under our workers compensation insurance policies for u.s. employees, we have retained the first $300,000, $250,000 and $250,000 in claim liability per incident with aggregate maximum claim liabilities per year of $2.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 and $2.0 million for each of the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. we have recogn ized cumulative expenses of $1.1 million, $0.5 million, and $0.6 million for claims incurred during t he years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. our estimated liability for worker compensation was $1.4 million and $1.2 millio n as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively . claims incurred during the years e nded december 31, 2014 and 2013 are relatively undeveloped as of december 31, 201 4 . therefore, it is possible that we could incur additional healthcare and wage indemnification costs beyond those previously recognized up to our aggregate liability for each of the respec tive claim years. for the years ended on or pr ior to december 31, 2012 , based on our retained claim liability per incident and our aggregate claim liability per year, our maximum liability in excess of the amounts deemed probable and previously recognized is not material as of december 31, 2014. as of december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $1.3 million to the insurance companies as security for these claims in connection with these policies. under our current employee healthcare insurance policy for u.s. employees, we retain claims liability risk up to $37 5,000 , $325 ,000 and $300 ,000 per incident per year in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. we recognized employee healthcare claim expense of $32 . 0 million, $29.2 million and $23 .0 million during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which includes actual claims paid and an estimate of our liability for the uninsured portion of employee healthcare obligations that have been incurred but not paid. should employee health insurance claims exceed our estimated liability, we would have further obligations. our estimated liability for healthcare claims that have been incurred but not paid as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $ 4. 1 million and $4.3 million, respectively. we have total contingent liabilities outstanding of up to $ 1 1 . 8 million primarily related to the achievement of certain revenue milestones. we have recorded $6.3 million of contingent commitments on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2014. the amount of contingent consideration recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2013 was not material. we have not accrued for $5. 5 million of contingent liabilities, related to the acquisition of an intangible asset in 2008 , as we do not deem the achievement of associated revenue milestones to be probable of occurring as of december 31, 2014. 61 w e are contractually obligated to make the following payments in the years below: contractual obligations (in thousands) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 480,661 $ 13,255 $ 26,510 $ 26,510 $ 414,386 operating leases 77,492 17,228 28,229 16,779 15,256 purchase obligations (2) 154,947 146,189 5,798 1,840 1,120 minimum royalty payments 3,265 665 1,091 1,031 478 total contractual cash obligations $ 716,365 $ 177,337 $ 61,628 $ 46,160 $ 431,240 (1) long-term debt amounts include interest payments associated with long-term debt. (2) purchase obligations include agreements and purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities, pricing, and approximate timing of purchase transactions. these commitments do not reflect u nrecognized tax benefits of $5.9 million and deferred compensation liabilities of $2.7 million as of december 31, 2014 as the timing of recognitio n is uncertain. refer to note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2014 included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manuf acturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program d escribed below. approximately 28 % of our consolidat ed rev enue for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 26% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for two of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands and singapore , the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a derivative instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant trans actions. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , we were not hedging any specific, significant transactions. 62 our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2014 . we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions. as a result, no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations for the years ended decem ber 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 . our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales is to employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchase and sales t otaled $186.7 million and $168.3 million at dec ember 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively . at december 31, 2014, we had $8.1 million of net unrealized gains on foreign currency exchange contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax expense. our foreign currency exchange risk is comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of settled hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is di fferent from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projecte d revenues and expenses for 2015 , excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce oper ating income by approximately $9 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, a they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. in june 2014, we refinanced our existing $450.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated credit agreement relating to a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $700 million with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on june 18, 2019. we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of the credit facility to the extent that the london interbank rate ( libor ) or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate ( cdor ) increases. borrowings under the credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.875 to 1.375 percentage points ( credit spread ) above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate a portion of our interest rate risk in future periods. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2014 were $549 million at a weighted-a verage effective interest rate of 1.5%. based on amounts outstanding and our interest rate swap effective at december 31, 2014, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $4.7 million on an annualized basis. beginning on march 30, 2012, the variable interest rate associated with $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.36% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. beginning on march 28, 2013, the variable interest rate associated with an additional $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.64% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges . at december 31, 2014, we had $0.7 million in unrealized losses, net of income tax benefit, on interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public a nd they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we are a delaware corporation incorporated in 1983. we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing m arkets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments, consumables and rapid assays ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services; practice management systems and services and diagnostic imaging systems used by veterinarians; biological mat erials testing , laboratory animal diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic, health-monitoring and food safety testing products for livestock, poultry and dairy ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. 4 description of business by segment we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, which we refer to as livestock , poultry and dairy ( lpd ) . our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-care medical diag nostics market ( opti medical ) with our pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2015, sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 39% of our overall revenue. these foreign sales accounted for approximately 33%, 50% and 89% of revenue in our cag, water and lpd segments, respectively. see part 1, item 1a. risk factors. and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2015 included in this annual report on f orm 10-k for more information about our segments and revenue from customers outside of the u.s. companion animal group cag provides to veterinarians diagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of pets . the breadth and complementary nature of our products and services comprise a unique competitive advantage that we refer to as the idexx diagnostic advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. the idexx diagnostic advantage improves staff efficiencies and also enables the veterinarian to communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner, which ultimately leads to growing practice revenues. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. 5 integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from all of idexx diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision making . in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarian and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. vetconnect plus is currently available in north america, australia, new zealand, japan, israel and i n numerous countrie throughout europe. in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis and coagulation analyzers, associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we sell three chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst dx and the catalyst one analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by opti medical systems, inc. ( opti medical systems ), one of our wholly- owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by idexx. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers in clude glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein and many others . tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease. the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital, fructosamine and total thyroxine ( t 4 ). key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum a nd urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterin arians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our fructosamine test helps veterinarians to diagnose and manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. we launched our total t 4 test globally for use on the catalyst one analyzer during the first quarter of 2015 and for use on the catalyst dx analyzer early in the third quarter of 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing and managing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. 6 the catalyst one analyzer, launched in november 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic work-flow requirements. the catalyst one analyzer currently offers an expanding menu of 30 tests, including tests for thyroid disease, kidney disease, diabetes and therapeutic drug monitoring. we also have two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by our opti medical systems business . sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the first and only in-house analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original lasercyte hematology analyzer and next generation lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx he matology analyzer and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders . the procyte dx analyzer, our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx an alyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for ten companion animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig and mini pig) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. immunoassay testing instruments . during the first quarter of 2014, we launched the snap pro mobile d evice , whic h automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the snap pro mobile screen, or via vetconnect plus . in addition, the snap pro mobile d evice improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx a nalyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, snap feline triple test and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . early in 2016, we plan to launch sedivue dx in north america. sedivue dx is the first and only in-clinic urine sediment analyzer, designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis. sedivue dx brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform a complete urinalysis in approximately 3 minutes. sedivue dx uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinically relevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record. the i dexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. 7 idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capabili ty. ivls securely connects to the i nternet, and in this way enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services , remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus . we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx, catalyst one, l asercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers , snap pro mobile device and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid a ssays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instru mentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded au tomatically by the snapshot dx a nalyzer or activated and captured automa tically by the snap pro mobile d evice as discu ssed above. the principal snap rapid a ssay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : nap 4dx plus, which tests for the six vector -borne diseases ; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap heart worm rt, which tests for hear tworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which te sts for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a commo n cause of waterborne infection; and snap lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to aids in humans ), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. 8 outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, new zealand, south africa and south korea. we have large reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large logistics hubs of major air cargo carriers . customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in the third quarter of 2015, we launched idexx sdma in north america, a new kidney test which detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. upon its introduction, idexx sdma was included in every chemistry panel submitted by our customers at no incremental charge. as of the first quarter of 2016, we have also launched idexx sdma in all of major european countries and australia. a full international launch of idexx sdma is planned over the remainder of 2016. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched hookworm and roundworm antigen tests to all fecal panels that already include the whipworm antigen test. these new intestinal parasite panels detect the presence of intestinal worms left undiagnosed by current methods, finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmi tted by telephone and over the i nternet. as part of a previous business combination , we acquired the research and diag nostic laboratory ( radil ) business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri. radil provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe and asia. customer in formation management and diagnostic imaging systems customer information management . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone, dvmax, animana and neo, which we launched in north america during the third quarter of 2015. idexx neo and idexx animana are cloud-based practice management systems available in north america, europe and australia, respectively. we also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including better choice, vpm, vetlink and beefree. our practice management services include payment solutions, data backup &amp; recovery, cornerstone coach, practice profile and petdetect boarding collars. 9 in addition, we offer client communication and preventive care plan management services designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. we commercially launched pet health network pro in march 2013, which is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based service that replaces cumbersome plastic anatomy models with engaging, three-dimension anatomical animations on a desktop or mobile device. using this service in the exam room improves client communication and facilitates adherence to veterinarian recommendations. in september 2014, we acquired petly plans, a cloud-based software solution for veterinary practices to customize, manage and monitor a range of monthly payment preventive care plans for their pet owner clients. petly plans complements the pet health network suite of client marketing services by making it easier for practices to increase access to the best care and offer plans that spread the cost of that care, including examinations, vaccines and diagnostics, over the course of the year. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. di agnostic imaging systems . our di agnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three di agnostic imaging systems, our idexx elitevision digital imaging system, and the idexx i-vision cr and the idexx i-vision dr systems for small animal veterinary applications. the idexx elitevision digital imaging system is a wireless system which uses advanced plate technology to capture clear, high-quality images in a short capture time. the idexx elitevision digital imaging system is a portable unit promoted for use in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) sof tware, idexx-pacs, that allows for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. this software also permits images from our di agnostic imaging systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. during the third quarter of 2015, we launched idexx web pacs, our cloud-based software solution for accessing, storing and sharing diagnostic images. idexx web pacs is a software-as-a-service ( saas ) offering, which is integrated with idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. idexx web pacs updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. the new software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners. idexx i-vision mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with the i-vision dr and idexx i-vision cr system s, as well as our legacy diagnostic imaging systems, to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. water we provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for billions of people around the world. our principal products are the coli lert, colilert-18 and colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater and water from private wells. 10 our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardi a t esting products. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched the quanti-tray sealer plus, a next generation instrument of the previously available quanti-tray sealer 2x. these instruments are used with the quanti-tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. livestock, poultry and dairy we sell diagnostic tests , services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic p roducts are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers and processors. our livestock testing services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the ani mal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine , leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth and vulnerability to secondary infections. we also provide tests for detecting pregnancy in bovine, which provides a means to optimize reproductive efficiency. our principal dairy products use our snap test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product lines are snap beta-lactam st and snapduo beta-tetra st, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in the third quarter of 2013, we acquired a brazilian distributor of certain of our livestock and dairy products. as part of this acquisition, we acquired the right to distribute food safety products that monitor microbial contamination and drug residues for livestock producers, meat exporters and pharmaceutical companies. other opti medical systems through opti medical systems, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer, which launched in april 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. 11 in addition, opti medical systems manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market, and provides the dry slides for electrolyte testing on the catalyst analyzers for our cag segment . other activities previously, we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of cag, and realigned the remainder of the products, comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other segment. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we continue to seek t o commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are also included in the other segment. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in all major regions, including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical ervice requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. effective january 1, 2015, we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. prior to januar y 1, 2015 , w e market ed our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force. we market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s., canada, europe and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $99.7 million, $98.3 million and $88.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or 6.2%, 6.6% and 6.4% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our product and offerings, strengthening the company reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. 12 important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; a n exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2017 ; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2019 ; a p atent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables th at expire beginning in 2023; patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire in 2026; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of idexx sdma that expire beginning in 2029. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to the company , a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although the company has several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2015 and are expected to expire during 2016 and 2017, the expiration of these patents , individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations. in addition , we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights . to the extent some of our products may now or in the future embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and t 4 slides), vetlyte consumables, lasercyte and lasercyte dx co nsumables, vettest, vetautoread and procyte dx analyzers and consumables , sedivue dx urinalysis instrument and components of our snap pro mobile device. vettest and catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. 13 we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. se veral of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech di agnostics, a unit of vca inc., abaxis, inc., heska corporation and zoetis inc . in 2015, following our transition to an all-direct sales and distribution model in the u.s., certain of our competitors began to sell products through our formerly exclusive u.s. distributors. see part ii item 7. results of operations and trends for more information. we also compete in international markets with fujifilm holdings corporation, arkray, inc. and bionote, inc. water, livestock , poultry and dairy testing products. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. 14 customer information management and di agnostic imaging systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america where our largest competitor is henry schein. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. government regulation many of ou r products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. 15 dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and import and export laws and regulations, including u.s. import and export control and sanctions laws. a ny acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food safety, medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees as of february 5, 2016, we had approximately 6,800 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone n umber is 207-556-0300, and our i nternet address is www.idexx.com . references to our website in this annual report on form 10-k are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com . 16 item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this report. our business lines are highly competitive and our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a material negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand and develop our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay kits and instrument consumables ( kits and consumables ) in the u.s.; attracting, developing and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. 17 our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers failure to comply with their contractual obligations. problems with suppliers could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; vetlyte electrolyte consumables, procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer; image capture plates used in our diagnostic imaging systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, and water testing products. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets through the development of new technology, the acquisition of rights to use existing technologies or the use of existing technologies when patents protecting such existing technologies expire. new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. with our transition to an all-direct sales strategy for our kits and consumables in the u.s. effective january 1, 2015, we did not renew our distribution agreements with our former key u.s. distribution partners after their expiration at the end of 2014, including exclusive distribution agreements with some of the largest u.s. distributors of companion animal veterinary products. we historically sold significant amounts of our kits and consumables through our former u.s. distribution partners, and two of our previously exclusive u.s. distribution partners joined a third former u.s. distribution partner by beginning to carry competitive instruments, consumables and rapid assay products in the fourth quarter of 2014. the promotion and sale of our competitors products by our former u.s. distribution partners may adversely affect the retention of our customers for our kits and consumables and the sales and distribution of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of many of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda or the epa. our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad, such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. these legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future. in addition, any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could result in fines, penalties and sanctions; suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture, market, import, export or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. 19 consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business veterinarians are our primary customers for our cag products and services, and the u.s. veterinary industry has been consolidating in recent years. the number of owners of veterinary hospitals has been declining, and an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include mars petcare (owner of banfield pet hospitals and blue pearl veterinary partners), national veterinary associates and vca antech, inc. a similar trend exists in other countries, such as in the u.k. and nordic countries and may in the future also develop in other international markets. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, inc., our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies or those that establish other affiliations with these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. for example, the demand for our bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of regulatory changes in the european union, including the european union standing committee on the food chain and animal health agreement to allow european union member states the option to eliminate bse testing of healthy cattle at slaughter. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products or our services do not comply with evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection we offer products and services that collect and use data provided by client practices and individuals , including practice management systems for veterinary practices (e.g., cornerstone and neo ), online client communication tools and services (e.g., pet health network pro), and cloud-based technology through vetconnect plus that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from idexx in-clinic analyzers, our rapid assays and reference laboratories in one place. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various idexx websites and collect contact and other personally identifiable information from our customers and visitors to our websites. federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of personally identifiable information, including data that we receive from our employees, customers, vendors and visitors to our websites and data collected by our customers and others when using our products and services. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions, including requiring local storage and processing of data. these laws and regulations continue to develop, are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, on october 6, 2015, the court of justice of the european union decided that the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed transfers of personal data to the u.s. in compliance with applicable eu data protection laws, was invalid. on february 2, 2016, u.s. and european commission officials announced they had agreed upon a framework for a new data sharing agreement, called the eu-u.s. privacy shield, to replace the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework. we are evaluating the potential impact of these changes to our business and practices and determining which of the multiple legal mechanisms available we will utilize to lawfully transfer personal data to the u.s. in compliance with eu data protection laws. the costs associated with compliance with these evolving legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future and as a result may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us or our products and services to protect employee or customer data (including as a result of a breach by or of a third-party provider) or to comply with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles or our posted privacy policies could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 21 strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business we are a global business, with 39% of our revenue during the year ended december 31, 2015 attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside of the u.s. any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, australian dollar and brazilian real, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales and profits that are made in those currencies. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar has a greater adverse effect on the profits from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars that are exported to international markets and a lesser effect on profits from foreign sourced products and services due to a natural hedge from international expenses denominated in the correspo nding foreign currencies. for the year ended dece mber 31, 2015, approximately 25% of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 28% and 26% for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. a strengthening u. s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars as well as affect our overall competitiveness in international markets. the accumulated impacts from any continued, longer-term growth in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our foreign currency hedging activities (see note 17 hedging instruments in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the prior year, changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased our revenues by approximately $89.7 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against all major foreign currencies in which we conduct business. additionally, our operating profit and diluted earnings per share for the year ended december 31, 2015 were reduced by $21.2 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, which are net of offsetting gains of $20.9 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, from our foreign currency hedging activities. at our current foreign exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate that the effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will have a material adverse effect on our operating results by decreasing our revenues, operating profit and diluted earnings per share in the year end ing december 31, 2016 by approximately $40 million, $31 million, and $0.26 per share, respectively. this unfavorable impact is net of offsetting foreign currency hedging gains, which are expected to increase total company operating profit by $8 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.06 in the year ending december 31, 2016. the actual impact of changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we transact may materially differ from our expectations described above. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $1.07, the british pound at $1.41, the canadian dollar at $0.68, the australian dollar at $0.68 and the japanese yen at 118 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2016. 22 a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2015, approximately 39% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 43% and 42% for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations; import/export restrictions, duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters, unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets, security concerns and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 23 our business sells many products through distributors, which present risks that could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products outside of the u.s. through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products outside the u.s. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failing to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, system disruptions and security breaches the operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks. any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. if we were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. risks associated with fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio we invest our surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, including corporate bonds, commercial paper, and a short-term money market fund which invests in securities issued or sponsored by the u.s. government. the value and liquidity of these marketable securities may fluctuate substantially, and could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio, geopolitical events or other factors. any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in the value of our portfolio could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, timing of regulatory approvals and licenses, litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in the u.s. and many other international jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, the various tax rates applied to the earnings of our activities are subject to significant change. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. also, we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. 25 our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our future income tax expense could also be affected by changes in the mix of earnings, including as a result of changes in the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to currencies in countries with differing statutory tax rates. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding tax impacts. the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates is not a measure defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ), otherwise referred to herein as a non-gaap financial measure. as exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results normalized for changes in currency in addition to reported results helps improve investors ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. effective january 1, 2014, we calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable previous year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. prior to january 1, 2014, we calculated this impact by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable previous year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the current year period. this change in methodology, which was implemented to achieve operational efficiencies, has not had a material impact on organic revenue growth. see the subsection below titled results of operations for the definition of and other information regarding organic revenue growth. during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the prior year, changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased our revenues by approximately $89.7 million, due primarily to the strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against virtually all major foreign currencies in which we conduct business. additionally, our operating profit and diluted earnings per share for the year ended december 31, 2015 were reduced by $21.2 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, which are net of offsetting gains of $20.9 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, from our foreign currency hedging activities. at our current currency exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate that the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to major foreign currencies in which we transact will decrease total company revenue by approximately $ 40 million in the year ending december 31, 2016. additionally, these changes in foreign currency exchange rates are expected to reduce total company operating profit by $31 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.26. this unfavorable impact is net of offsetting foreign currency hedging gains, which are expected to increase total company operating profit by $8 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.06 in the year ending december 31, 2016. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $1.07, the 47 british pound at $1.41, the canadian dollar at $0.68, the australian dollar at $0.68 and the japanese yen at 118 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2016. effects of economic conditions . demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, including slow economic growth, high unemployment and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, diagnostic imaging and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. in the u.s., we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although this data is a limited sample and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, which may affect the number of patient visits in a given period, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. water testing volumes may be susceptible to declines in discretionary testing for existing home and commercial sales and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. testing volumes may also be impacted by severe weather conditions such as drought. in addition, fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and livestock testing programs. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the potential effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. effects of patent expiration . although the company has several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2015 and are expected to expire during 2016 and 2017, the expiration of these patents or licenses , individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations due to a range of factors including our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; and our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings. see item 1. patents and licenses for more information. twelve months ended december 31, 201 5 compared to twelv e months ended december 31, 2014 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. 48 total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,356,287 $ 1,223,064 $ 133,223 10.9% (5.6%) 0.8% 15.7% water 96,884 94,725 2,159 2.3% (5.5%) - 7.8% lpd 127,143 141,179 (14,036) (9.9%) (12.0%) - 2.1% other 21,578 26,839 (5,261) (19.6%) (0.8%) - (18.8%) total $ 1,601,892 $ 1,485,807 $ 116,085 7.8% (6.2%) 0.6% 13.4% we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced both reported cag and total company reported revenues by $25 million. the impact of prior year changes in distributors inventory levels increased reported cag and total company growth by 3% and 2%, respectively. u.s. and international revenue. the following table provides further analysis of total company revenue by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international, markets: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 change change currency acquisitions growth united states $ 980,321 $ 848,925 $ 131,396 15.5% - 0.3% 15.2% international 621,571 636,882 (15,311) (2.4%) (14.1%) 1.2% 10.5% total $ 1,601,892 $ 1,485,807 $ 116,085 7.8% (6.2%) 0.6% 13.4% the increase in both u.s. and international organic revenues was driven by cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in organic international revenues was driven primarily by volume growth in europe, asia-pacific markets, canada and to a lesser extent latin america. u.s. revenue benefitted from distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy. the impact of the prior year drawdown of distributors inventory levels increased reported u.s. revenue growth by 3%. c hanges in distributors inventory levels increased reported international revenue growth by less than 1% . companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,146,527 $ 1,039,252 $ 107,275 10.3% (5.8%) 0.6% 15.5% vetlab consumables 396,526 341,407 55,119 16.1% (7.1%) - 23.2% vetlab service and accessories 55,176 53,006 2,170 4.1% (5.9%) - 10.0% rapid assay products 182,670 165,647 17,023 10.3% (3.0%) - 13.3% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 512,155 479,192 32,963 6.9% (5.8%) 1.3% 11.4% cag diagnostics capital instruments 99,001 79,993 19,008 23.8% (10.4%) - 34.2% customer information management and diagnostic imaging systems 110,759 103,819 6,940 6.7% (0.9%) 2.6% 5.0% net cag revenue $ 1,356,287 $ 1,223,064 $ 133,223 10.9% (5.6%) 0.8% 15.7% 49 the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to higher sales of our vetlab consumables and our reference laboratory diagnostic services resulting from both increased volumes as well as higher realized prices from distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the impact of the prior year drawdown of distributors inventory levels increased reported cag diagnostics recurring revenue growth by 3%. vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher sales volumes resulting from growth in testing from existing customers and an expanded menu of available tests, including our new t 4 test. additionally, we benefitted from higher average unit sales prices, due primarily to distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the impact of the prior year drawdown of distributors inventory levels increased reported consumables revenue growth by 5%. vetlab service and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. vetlab service and accessories revenue also benefited from higher average unit sales prices, resulting primarily from distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the increase in rapid assay revenue was due primarily to impacts related to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s., including higher average unit sales prices resulting from distributor margin capture and the impact of the drawdown of inventory held by distributors during the fourth quarter of 2014, which increased 2015 reported revenue growth by 8%. to a lesser extent, we also benefitted from higher canine snap 4dx plus sales volumes. these favorable factors were partly offset by the impact of competitive losses on certain earlier generation rapid assay products in the u.s in the first half of 2015. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from existing customers and the net acquisition of new customers. additionally, the increase in revenue was the result of higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. the increase in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue was driven by sales of our catalyst one analyzer, resulting primarily from instrument placements in europe and the asia-pacific region and the recognition of previously deferred revenue associated with 2014 u.s. preorders for our catalyst one analyzer. additionally, we benefitted from increased procyte dx instrument placements, most notably in the u.s. these favorable factors were partly offset by lower average unit sales prices realized on our instrument placements. the increase in customer in formation management and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was due primarily to higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our active installed base of di agnostic imaging and practice management systems, and higher revenues from other customer information management services and an increasing pet health network pro subscriber base. these favorable f actors were partly offset by fewer cornerstone placements and the unfavor able impact of increased diagnostic imaging system placements under up-front customer loyalty programs for which the consideration and related revenue will be deferred and recognized over future periods , which resulted in an overall decrease in diagnostic imaging system sales. during the third quarter of 2015, we launched idexx neo practice management software, a saas practice management system in north america. under this delivery model, we provide hosted software in the cloud on a subscription basis. during the next year, w e anticipate that demand for neo, our subscription-based saas practice management offering, will moderate future revenue growth from new licensed-based cornerstone placements as we evolve to a subscription-based model for new customer acquisitions of idexx practice management systems . we believe that once established, this subscription-based model will provide higher profitability as compared to the historical license-based placements. water. the increase in water revenue was distributed across all major regions and resulted primarily from higher sales volumes of our colilert and related accessories used in our coliform and e. coli testing, placements of our quanti-tray sealer plus instrument , which we launched in june 2015, and increased sales of our products designed to detect cryptosporidium. 50 livestock, poultry and dairy. the increase in lpd organic revenue resulted primarily from higher sales volumes of certain bovine tests , poultry and swine tests , most prominently in the asi a-pacific region and europe and to a lesser degree in the u.s. and latin america . these favorable factors were partly offset by a reduction in livestock testing services in the asia-pacific region. other. the decrease in other revenue was due primarily to lower sales volumes of our pharmaceutical product line, lower sales volumes of our opti medical blood gas analyzers, most prominently in the asia pacific region, and lower average unit sales prices on related opti medical consumables. gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 727,626 53.6% $ 655,197 53.6% $ 72,429 11.1% water 68,785 71.0% 62,924 66.4% 5,861 9.3% lpd 77,227 60.7% 89,519 63.4% (12,292) (13.7%) other 10,574 49.0% 14,236 53.0% (3,662) (25.7%) unallocated amounts 6,058 n/a (5,760) n/a 11,818 205.2% total company $ 890,270 55.6% $ 816,116 54.9% $ 74,154 9.1% gross profit increased due to higher sales , due in part to the prior year drawdown of distributors inventory levels, and an increase in the gross profit percentage to 56% from 55%. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from lower production costs that are not allocated to our segments , higher average cag unit sales prices, primarily resulting from distributor margin capture, net of related freight and distribution expenses relating to our transition within the u.s. to an all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables, and the positive net effect of currency . lower production costs were due primarily to the recognition of previously capitalized favorable standard cost variances for our lpd, vetlab consumables and rapid a ssay test kits inventories, which are recorded within unallocated amounts. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to the prior year, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . these overall favorable factors were partly offset by unfavorable product mix, resulting primarily from higher relative instrument revenues which yield lower relative margins during 2015 as compared to 2014. companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales , due in part to the prior year drawdown of distributors inventory levels . the gross profit percentage of 54% was unchanged from the prior year as the impact of unfavorable product mix, resulting primarily from higher relative instrument revenues which yield lower relative margins , was entirely offset by the benefit of higher average unit sales prices, primarily resulting from distributor margin capture, net of related freight and distribution expenses relating to our transition within the u.s. to an all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay t est kits and vetlab consumables and the positive net effect of currency. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to the prior year, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . water. gross profit for water increased due primarily to an increase in the gross profit percentage from 66% to 71% and higher sales. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from the expiration of certain royalties on december 31, 2014 and the positive net effect of currency. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to the prior year, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . these overall favorable factors were partly offset by a less favorable product mix, due primarily to higher relative instrument and accessories sales which yield lower relative margins. 51 livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd decreased due to lower sales and a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 63% to 61%. the decrease in the gross profit percentage reflects lower volume efficiencies resulting from a decrease in our asia-pacific region livestoc k testing services revenue and current year unfavorability from the absence of the one-time decrease in royalty expense which occurred during the first quarter of 2014, resulting from a settlement with a licensor of certain patents. other. gross profit for other decreased due to lower sales and a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 53% to 49%. the decrease in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to our opti medical business, including lower average unit sales prices on consumables used by our blood gas analyzers and, to a lesser extent, higher overall manufacturing costs and the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, the other gross profit percentage declined due to an unfavorable product mix resulting from lower relative sales of our pharmaceutical product line. unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts increased due primarily to a decrease in certain manufacturing costs. the manufacturing costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold and any variances from standard cost for products purchased or manufactured within the period. we capitalize these variances for inventory on hand at the end of the period to record inventory in accordance with u.s. gaap. we then record these variances as cost of product revenue as that inventory is sold. the impact to cost of product revenue resulting from this variance capitalization and subsequent recognition is reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the net favorable impact to gross profit resulting from decreased manufacturing costs was due to the capitalization of favorable manufacturing variances, primarily related to lpd, vetlab consumables, and our rapid assay test kit inventories, during the twelve months ended december 31, 2014. the majority of these favorable variances were recognized within unallocated amounts during the year ended december 31, 2015 . operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 495,984 36.6% $ 451,661 36.9% $ 44,323 9.8% water 24,201 25.0% 23,662 25.0% 539 2.3% lpd 52,830 41.6% 55,731 39.5% (2,901) (5.2%) other 10,418 48.3% 11,757 43.8% (1,339) (11.4%) unallocated amounts 6,925 n/a 13,050 n/a (6,125) (46.9%) total company $ 590,358 36.9% $ 555,861 37.4% $ 34,497 6.2% for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 231,642 17.1% $ 203,536 16.6% $ 28,106 13.8% water 44,584 46.0% 39,262 41.4% 5,322 13.6% lpd 24,397 19.2% 33,788 23.9% (9,391) (27.8%) other 156 0.7% 2,479 9.2% (2,323) (93.7%) unallocated amounts (867) n/a (18,810) n/a 17,943 95.4% total company $ 299,912 18.7% $ 260,255 17.5% $ 39,657 15.2% 52 during the year ended december 31, 2015, w e recorded an $8.2 million impairment charge related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service within unallocated amounts as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our i nformation management business. during the year ended december 31, 2014, t he transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. within our cag segment reduced operating profit by $35. 3 million . our all-direct transition impacts consisted of a one-time reduction in operating profit related to the drawdown of inventory held by our u.s. distributors, which reduced operating income by $20.8 million, $5.0 million in incremental expenses related to the ramp up of sales and operating resources and approximately $9.5 million of non-recurring expenses during the year ended december 31, 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2015, adjusted operating income, which is total company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned software impairment charge was approximately $308.1 million and 19.2% of revenue, which represents an increase in adjusted operating income of $12.6 million and 4.3%, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, which is adjusted for the aforementioned all-direct sales strategy transition impacts. adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories fo r details regarding transitional costs related to moving to an all-direct sales strategy for vetlab consumables and rapid assay products and services within our cag segment in the u.s. companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 263,907 19.5% $ 244,190 20.0% $ 19,717 8.1% general and administrative 159,851 11.8% 137,192 11.2% 22,659 16.5% research and development 72,226 5.3% 70,279 5.7% 1,947 2.8% total operating expenses $ 495,984 36.6% $ 451,661 36.9% $ 44,323 9.8% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, resulting primarily from our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. as well as increases in global commercial resources, and incremental information technology costs to support the all-direct sales strategy. these unfavorable factors were partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the absence of $9.5 million in non-recurring transition costs to implement this all-direct sales strategy. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and, to a lesser extent, incremental credit card fees associated with our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs, partly offset by lower external development and materials costs. water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 12,204 12.6% $ 11,494 12.1% $ 710 6.2% general and administrative 9,058 9.3% 9,226 9.7% (168) (1.8%) research and development 2,939 3.0% 2,942 3.1% (3) (0.1%) total operating expenses $ 24,201 25.0% $ 23,662 25.0% $ 539 2.3% 53 the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and increased spending on promotional activities, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. general and administrative expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 was generally consistent with the prior year as the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates was almost entirely offset by increased personnel-related costs. research and development expense was also generally consistent with the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 22,307 17.5% $ 25,367 18.0% $ (3,060) (12.1%) general and administrative 18,655 14.7% 17,354 12.3% 1,301 7.5% research and development 11,868 9.3% 13,010 9.2% (1,142) (8.8%) total operating expenses $ 52,830 41.6% $ 55,731 39.5% $ (2,901) (5.2%) the decrease in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs, partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the decrease in research and development expense was due primarily to lower personnel-related costs and the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. other. operating expenses for other, which totaled $10.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, decreased $1.3 million as compared to the prior year, due primarily to a reduction in opti medical spending for external product development and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partly offset by higher personnel-related costs. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments decreased by $6.1 million to $6.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, due primarily to a decrease in personnel-related costs related to cost control initiatives and the absence of certain foreign currency losses on monetary assets, partly offset by the impairment of internal-use software recorded during 2015. we estimate certain personnel -related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. interest income and interest expense interest income was $2.5 million and $1.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the increase in interest income was due primarily to higher yields from our portfolio of marketable securities that we purchased during 2015. interest expense was $ 29.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $15.4 million for the prior year. the increase in interest expense was due primarily to approximately $450 million in senior notes that we issued and sold through private placements between july 2014 and june 2015, for which fixed interest rates range from 1.785% to 3.76%. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. in addition, increased interest expense resulted from the impact of higher average borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility. provision for income taxes our eff ective income tax rate was 29.7 % for the year ended december 31, 2015 and 26.2% for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase in our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, was related to lower relative earnings subject to international tax rates that are lower than domestic tax rates, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, as well as a non-recurring benefit recognized during period ended december 31, 2014 related to the deferral of intercompany profits that were included in prior year tax provisions in error, which is not material to prior interim or annual periods. 54 on december 18, 2015 the protecting americans from tax hikes act of 2015 was passed (2015 path act). the 2015 path act provided a retroactive and permanent extension of the u.s. research and development ( r&amp;d ) tax credit. as a result, we recorded the entire 2015 tax benefit during the three months ended december 31, 2015. as the r&amp;d tax credit was available for both the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, it did not have a significant impact on changes in our full-year effective tax rate. twelve months ended december 31, 2014 compared to twelve months ended december 31, 2013 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,223,064 $ 1,140,292 $ 82,772 7.3% (0.7%) 0.3% 7.7% water 94,725 87,959 6,766 7.7% (0.4%) 1.0% 7.1% lpd 141,179 123,688 17,491 14.1% (1.2%) 3.8% 11.5% other 26,839 25,119 1,720 6.8% - - 6.8% total $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 $ 108,749 7.9% (0.7%) 0.6% 8.0% we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced both reported cag and total company revenue growth by 2%. 55 u.s. and international revenue. the following table provides further analysis of total company revenue by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international, markets: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth united states $ 848,925 $ 802,346 $ 46,579 5.8% - 0.1% 5.7% international 636,882 574,712 62,170 10.8% (1.7%) 1.3% 11.2% total $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 $ 108,749 7.9% (0.7%) 0.6% 8.0% the increase in both u.s. and international revenues was primarily driven by cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in international revenues was driven by strong volume growth in europe and asia-pacific markets. we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced reported u.s. revenue growth by 3%. the impact of changes in distributors inventory levels did not have a significant impact on reported international revenue growth. companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,039,252 $ 964,009 $ 75,243 7.8% (0.7%) 0.3% 8.2% vetlab consumables 341,407 312,457 28,950 9.3% (0.6%) - 9.9% vetlab service and accessories 53,006 50,675 2,331 4.6% (0.8%) - 5.4% rapid assay products 165,647 169,547 (3,900) (2.3%) (0.4%) - (1.9%) reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 479,192 431,330 47,862 11.1% (0.8%) 0.6% 11.3% cag diagnostics capital instruments 79,993 83,492 (3,499) (4.2%) (1.2%) - (3.0%) customer information management and diagnostic imaging systems 103,819 92,791 11,028 11.9% (0.5%) 0.5% 11.9% net cag revenue $ 1,223,064 $ 1,140,292 $ 82,772 7.3% (0.7%) 0.3% 7.7% the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to increased volumes and higher realized prices in both our reference laboratory diagnostic services and our vetlab consumables. the drawdown of inventory held by distributors, as a result of our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, reduced reported cag diagnostics recurring revenue by 3%. vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher unit volumes. the increase in unit volumes resulted primarily from growth of our installed base of catalyst and procyte dx instruments as a result of new customer acquisitions, as well as an increase in testing from existing customers, including those who upgraded to these instruments. additionally, vetlab consumables revenue benefited from higher average unit sales prices resulting from price increases. these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower consumables volumes from our vettest chemistry instrument as customers continue to upgrade from our vettest instrument to our catalyst instruments. the drawdown of inventory held by distributors, resulting from our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, reduced reported consumables revenue growth by 5%. vetlab service and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our installed base of instruments. 56 the decrease in rapid assay revenue was due primarily to the drawdown of inventory held by distributors as we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, which reduced reported rapid assay revenue growth by 7%. this unfavorable factor was partly offset by higher sales of both our canine and feline testing products, resulting from both an increase in u.s. practice-level sales volumes and higher average unit sales prices. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories resulting from increased testing from existing customers, the acquisition of new customers and improved customer retention. additionally, the increase in revenue was favorably impacted by higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. the decrease in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue was due primarily to the unfavorable impact of deferred revenue associated with preorders for our catalyst one analyzer, which we launched during the fourth quarter of 2014 and the impact of lower realized prices. under our catalyst one introductory offer, customers are provided with the right to use a catalyst dx instrument through the catalyst one delivery date. as a result, we do not recognize instrument revenue for preorders relating to the catalyst one introductory offer until the catalyst one is delivered. these unfavorable impacts were partly offset by higher placements of our catalyst dx and procyte dx instruments, primarily in europe and the asia-pacific region, and placements of our snap pro mobile device in north america. for the year ended december 31, 2014, the majority of snap pro mobile device placements were made under a reagent rental program for which instrument revenue will be recognized with the future sale of consumables. the increase in customer information management and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was due primarily to a growing pet health network pro subscriber base, higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our installed base of diagnostic imaging and practice management systems and higher revenue from hardware upgrades as a result of microsoft ending support for windows xp . water. the increase in water revenue resulted from higher revenue from our colilert products and related accessories, due primarily to increased sales volumes worldwide resulting from the acquisition of new customers. livestock, poultry and dairy. the increase in lpd organic revenue was due primarily to higher sales of certain bovine test products and livestock testing services in the asia-pacific region, higher volumes in europe of our milk-based bovine pregnancy test and higher sales of poultry tests in europe and latin america . the acquisition of a brazilian distributor of our lpd products in the third quarter of 2013 added 4% to reported revenue growth for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. other. the increase in other revenue was due primarily to higher milestone revenue from our pharmaceutical out-licensing arrangements earned during the year ended december 31, 2014 and higher sales volumes associated with our opti medical consumables and pharmaceutical product line. these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower sales of our opti medical instruments in latin america. gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 655,197 53.6% $ 609,602 53.5% $ 45,595 7.5% water 62,924 66.4% 58,218 66.2% 4,706 8.1% lpd 89,519 63.4% 69,267 56.0% 20,252 29.2% other 14,236 53.0% 12,650 50.4% 1,586 12.5% unallocated amounts (5,760) n/a 6,381 n/a (12,141) (190.3%) total company $ 816,116 54.9% $ 756,118 54.9% $ 59,998 7.9% 57 gross profit increased due to higher sales. the gross profit percentage was consistent with the prior year, as the favorable impact of higher average unit sales prices for our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio and for our lpd test products, combined with lower overall vet lab product costs were offset by impacts related to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, including an unfavorable product mix resulting from the inventory drawdown of higher margin rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables from our u.s. distributors and higher freight and distribution costs. companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales and a slight increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in gross profit percentage was due primarily to lower overall vetlab product costs and price increases across our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio. these favorable factors were partly offset by impacts related to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, including an unfavorable product mix resulting from the inventory drawdown of higher margin rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables from our u.s. distributors and higher freight and distribution costs. water. gross profit for water increased due primarily to higher sales. the slight increase in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to a more favorable product mix resulting from higher relative sales of our colilert products which yield higher margins, lower overall manufacturing costs resulting from a decrease in materials costs and higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. these favorable factors were partly offset by the unfavorable impact of currency due primarily to lower relative hedging gains during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd increased due to an improvement in t he gross profit percentage to 63% from 56 % and higher sales. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from lower overall manufacturing costs, driven by higher production volumes, a decrease in royalty expense and higher average unit sales prices. the decrease in royalty expense was due primarily to an agreement executed in the first quarter of 2014 with a licensor of patents related to the sale of certain swine tests. other. gross profit for other increased due to higher sales and an improvement in the gross profit percentage to 53% from 50%. the increase in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs in our opti medical business, resulting from a reduction in material costs and higher production volumes, and an increase in milestone revenue related to our pharmaceutical out-licensing arrangements, for which there is no associated costs of revenue. these favorable factors were partly offset by higher cost of service associated with opti medical instruments and a decrease in average unit sales prices on related consumables. unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts decreased due primarily to an increase in certain manufacturing costs and changes in certain currency exchange rates. the manufacturing costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold and any variances from standard cost for products purchased or manufactured within the period. we capitalize these variances for inventory on hand at the end of the period to record inventory in accordance with u.s. gaap. we then record these variances as cost of product revenue as that inventory is sold. the impact to cost of product revenue resulting from this variance capitalization and subsequent recognition is reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the net unfavorable impact to gross profit as a result of increased manufacturing costs was due to the capitalization of favorable manufacturing variances, primarily within our lpd business, during the year ended december 31, 2014. in certain geographies where we maintain inventories in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, the product costs reported in our operating segments include our standard cost for products sold, which is stated at the budgeted currency exchange rate from the beginning of the fiscal year. in these geographies, the variances from standard cost for products sold related to changes in currency exchange rates are reported within the caption unallocated amounts. the u.s. dollar strengthened significantly against the japanese yen during the year ended december 31, 2013. the strengthening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen during the year ended december 31, 2014 was less significant, as compared to the prior year, resulting in a lower favorable variance within unallocated amounts relating to the cost of products sold in japanese yen. 58 operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 451,661 36.9% $ 397,045 34.8% $ 54,616 13.8% water 23,662 25.0% 20,897 23.8% 2,765 13.2% lpd 55,731 39.5% 49,020 39.6% 6,711 13.7% other 11,757 43.8% 10,245 40.8% 1,512 14.8% unallocated amounts 13,050 n/a 12,149 n/a 901 7.4% total company $ 555,861 37.4% $ 489,356 35.5% $ 66,505 13.6% for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change cag $ 203,536 16.6% $ 212,558 18.6% $ (9,022) (4.2%) water 39,262 41.4% 37,321 42.4% 1,941 5.2% lpd 33,788 23.9% 20,246 16.4% 13,542 66.9% other 2,479 9.2% 2,405 9.6% 74 3.1% unallocated amounts (18,810) n/a (5,768) n/a (13,042) (226.1%) total company $ 260,255 17.5% $ 266,762 19.4% $ (6,507) (2.4%) the transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. within our cag segment reduced operating profit by $35.3 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. these impacts consisted of a one-time reduction in operating profit related to the drawdown of inventory held by our u.s. distributors, which reduced operating income by $20.8 million, $5.0 million in incremental expenses related to the ramp up of sales and operating resources and approximately $9.5 million of non-recurring expenses during the year ended december 31, 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2014, adjusted operating income, which is total company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned transition impacts was approximately $295.6 million and 19.6% of revenue, which represents an increase in adjusted operating income of $24.7 million and 9.1%, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, which is adjusted for the 2013 bankruptcy of a third-party service provider of approximately $4.1 million. adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories for details regarding transitional costs related to moving to an all-direct sales strategy for vetlab consumables and rapid assay products and services within our cag segment in the u.s. companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 244,190 20.0% $ 208,839 18.3% $ 35,351 16.9% general and administrative 137,192 11.2% 125,384 11.0% 11,808 9.4% research and development 70,279 5.7% 62,822 5.5% 7,457 11.9% total operating expenses $ 451,661 36.9% $ 397,045 34.8% $ 54,616 13.8% 59 the increase in sales and marketing expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs across all major regions, including our north american sales force transformation started in the second half of 2013 and increased commissions resulting from improved sales performance; and non-recurring consulting costs related to the aforementioned implementation of an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and, to a lesser extent, depreciation of internal-use software, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates . the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and increased materials costs, partly offset by lower external consulting and development costs. water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 11,494 12.1% $ 9,942 11.3% $ 1,552 15.6% general and administrative 9,226 9.7% 8,398 9.5% 828 9.9% research and development 2,942 3.1% 2,557 2.9% 385 15.1% total operating expenses $ 23,662 25.0% $ 20,897 23.8% $ 2,765 13.2% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and incremental spending on promotional activities. personnel-related costs included commissions related to improved sales performance, and incremental costs associated with the acquisition of our distributor in south africa in the fourth quarter of 2013. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs. the increase in research and development expense was due primarily to higher materials costs. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2014 revenue 2013 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 25,367 18.0% $ 21,124 17.1% $ 4,243 20.1% general and administrative 17,354 12.3% 15,348 12.4% 2,006 13.1% research and development 13,010 9.2% 12,548 10.1% 462 3.7% total operating expenses $ 55,731 39.5% $ 49,020 39.6% $ 6,711 13.7% the increase in sales and marketing expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs, including incremental costs associated with the acquisition of a brazilian distributor in the third quarter of 2013 and commercial team investments worldwide, most significantly in the asia-pacific region. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted from incremental costs associated with the acquisition of the brazilian distributor, primarily personnel-related costs and higher amortization of the acquired intangible assets. the increase in research and development expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs. other. operating expenses for other increased $1.5 million to $11.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and an increase in external development and consulting costs in our opti medical line of business. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments increased by $0.9 million to $13.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, due primarily to certain foreign exchange losses and an increase in certain personnel-related costs. these unfavorable factors were partly offset by the absence of a $4.1 million loss incurred during the year ended december 31, 2013 resulting from the bankruptcy of a freight payment and audit service provider. over the second half of 2014, the u.s. dollar experienced a continued and persistent strengthening relative to all major foreign currencies in which we transact, resulting in realized and unrealized losses on monetary assets, partly offset by gains on liabilities denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. 60 we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. interest income and interest expense interest income was $1.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $1.9 million for the prior year . the decrease in interest income resulted from our june 2014 disposition of a debt investment and repayment of the related notes receivable, partly offset by increased interest income earned on higher a verage cash balances. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the disposition of this strategic investment. interest expense was $15.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to $5.4 million for the prior year. the increase in interest expense was due primarily to senior notes that we issued and sold through three private placements between december 2013 and september 2014 in an aggregate principal amount of $350 million. fixed interest rates on the senior notes range from 3.32% to 4.04%. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. provision for income taxes our effective income tax rate was 26.2% for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 28.7% for the year ended december 31, 2013. the decrease in our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, was related to higher relative earnings subject to international tax rates that are lower than domestic tax rates, a non-recurring benefit related to the deferral of intercompany profits that were included in prior year tax provisions in error, which is not material to current or prior interim or annual periods, and the resolution of domestic and international tax audits, which resulted in a net reduction in our provisio n for uncertain tax positions. these favorable factors were partly offset by a reduction in the benefit from the r&amp;d tax credit. during the three months ended march 31, 2013, legislation in the u.s. retroactively allowed the r&amp;d tax credit for all of 2012 and extended the r&amp;d tax credit through the year ended december 31, 2013. as a result, in the year end ed december 31, 2013 we recorded the benefit of two years of r&amp;d tax cre dit as compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 in which we have recorded only the benefit related to that year activities. recent accounting pronouncements a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements is included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2015 included in this annual report on form 10-k. liquidity and capital resources we fund the capital needs of our business through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, and amounts available on our $850 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility under an amended and restated credit agreement that we executed in december 2015 (the credit facility ). in addition, we issued $150 million of senior notes in february 2015 and 88.9 million (approximately $100 million) of euro-denominated senior notes in june 2015. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, we purchased marketable debt securities using a portion of our cash balances. at de cember 31, 2015 and 2014, we had $342.6 million and $322.5 million, respectively, of cash , cash equivalents and marketable securities. working capital, including our credit facility, totaled negative $35.1 million and negative $61.5 million, respectively, at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014. additionally, at december 31, 2015, we had remainin g borrowing availability of $276 .0 million under our $850 million credit facility. we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain additional borrowings at similar rates to our existing borrowings to fund our growth objectives. we further believe that current cash and cash equivalents, our portfolio of short-duration marketable securities, funds generated from operations, and committed borrowing availability will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital purchase requirements, and anticipated growth needs for the next twelve months. we believe that these resources, coupled with our ability, as needed, to obtain additional financing on favorable terms will also be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our business as currently conducted. 61 we consider the majority of the operating earnings of certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the u.s. no provision has been made for the payment of u.s. federal and state or international taxes that may result from future remittances of these undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries. changes to this position could have adverse tax consequences. a determination of the related tax liability that would be paid on these undistributed earnings if repatriated is not practicable for several reasons including the complexity of laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we operate, the varying tax treatment of potential repatriation scenarios and the timing of any future repatriation. we manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among all of our subsidiaries. our foreign cash and marketable securities are generall y available without restrictions to fund ordinary business operations outside the u.s. of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at december 31, 2015, approximately $341.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was subject to material repatriation tax effects. we held marketable securities with original maturities of two years or less that had an average a a- credit rating as of december 31, 2015. of the $213 .6 million in marketable securities held as of december 31, 2015, approximately 83 % of the fair value of our marketable securities consisted of corporate bonds, 6% consisted of agency bonds, with the remainder consisting of u.s. and canadian government bonds, municipal bonds, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. of the $129.0 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2015 , 85% was held as bank deposits, 6% was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities, 6% was invested in money market funds invested in highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities and the remainder consisted of commercial paper and agency bonds with original maturities of less than ninety days. as of dec ember 31, 2015, approximately 70 % of the cash , cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries was held in u.s. dollars. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the u.s. through debt or equity issuances. these alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates or increased interest expense and other dilution of our earnings. we have borrowed funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. the following table presents additional key information concerning working capital: for the three months ended december 31, september 30, june 30, march 31, december 31, 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 days sales outstanding (1) 43.3 43.8 43.7 41.6 40.6 inventory turns (2) 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.7 (1) days sales outstanding represents the average of the accounts receivable balances at the beginning and end of each quarter divided by revenue for that quarter, the result of which is then multiplied by 91.25 days. (2) inventory turns represent inventory-related cost of product revenue for the 12 months preceding each quarter-end divided by the inventory balance at the end of the quarter. sources and uses of cash the following table presents cash provided (used): for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 dollar change net cash provided by operating activities $ 216,364 $ 235,846 $ (19,482) net cash used by investing activities (308,406) (80,413) (227,993) net cash used by financing activities (95,552) (103,438) 7,886 net effect of changes in exchange rates on cash (5,948) (8,517) 2,569 net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (193,542) $ 43,478 $ (237,020) 62 operating activities. cash provided by operating activities was $216.4 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 compared to $235.8 million for the same period of the prior year . the total of net income and net non-cash charges, excluding the impact of reclassifying the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements to a financing activity, was $297.5 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 compared to $261.6 million for the same period in 2014, resulting in incremental operating cash flows of $35.9 million driven primarily by the impact of higher net income, net of depreciation and amortization expense and an impairment of internally-developed software recorded during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015. the total of changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements decreased cash by $81.1 million and $25.8 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, resulting in an incremental decrease in cash of $55.3 million. the following table presents cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 dollar change accounts receivable $ (50,142) $ (3,626) $ (46,516) inventories (34,969) (38,310) 3,341 accounts payable (2,468) 6,703 (9,171) deferred revenue (319) 14,195 (14,514) other assets and liabilities 18,087 11,319 6,768 tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements (11,315) (16,078) 4,763 total change in cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements $ (81,126) $ (25,797) $ (55,329) the incremental cash used by accounts receivable during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 was due primarily to our transition to an all-direct strategy in the u.s., including the establishment of accounts receivable directly with our u.s. end-users that previously purchased from our u.s. distribution partners, which take a longer elapsed time to collect. additionally, accounts receivable was impacted by increased revenues during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, relative to the same period in the prior year, including the margin capture associated with the aforementioned all-direct strategy. in contrast, we received the benefit of collecting the final accounts receivable from our u.s. distribution partners during december 2014. the net incremental cash provided by other assets and accrued liabilities was due primarily to lower income taxes receivable resulting from 2014 tax payments in advance of the tax increase prevention act enactment and related benefits late in the fourth quarter of 2014, as well as the recognition of previously deferred catalyst instrument costs under the catalyst one introductory offer where we recognized the revenue and cost of catalyst instruments upon delivery of the catalyst one instruments or customer election to keep the catalyst dx instruments during 2015. these factors were partly offset by the incremental cash used for personnel-related accruals, including higher relative payments related to employee incentive programs and higher payments for other accruals due to increases in expenses during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period of the prior year. the cash used by deferred revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, as compared to cash provided during the same period of the prior year, was due primarily to the aforementioned catalyst one introductory offer. cash used by inventories continued at a similar level to 2014 due to growth in volume commitment rental programs in international markets and relatively higher inventory levels to support new instrument and diagnostic test launches. we have historically experienced proportionally lower net cash flows from operating activities during the first quarter and proportionally higher cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of the year and for the annual period driven primarily by payments related to annual employee incentive programs in the first quarter following the year for which the bonuses were earned and the seasonality of vector-borne disease testing, which has historically resulted in significant increases in accounts receivable balances during the first quarter of the year. investing activities . cash used by investing activities was $308.4 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 , as compared to $80.4 million for the same period of the prior year . the increase in cash used by investing activities was due primarily to the purchase of marketable securities during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015. to a lesser extent, incremental capital investments in our reference laboratory equipment and facilities during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 also contributed to the increase in cash used by investing activities. 63 our total capital expenditure plan for 2016 is estimated to be approximately $90 million, which includes capital investments in manufacturing and reference laboratory equipment, investments in internal use software and information technology infrastructure and the renovation and expansion of our facilities and reference laboratories. financing activities. cash used by financing activities was $ 95.6 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 compared to cash used of $103.4 million for the same period in 2014. the decrease in cash used by financing activities was due to a decrease in cash used to repurchase our common stock, the aggregate issuance of approximately $250 million of senior notes during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $200 million of senior notes issued during the same period of th e prior year, and lower relative net borrowings under the credit facility during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period of the prior year. in june 2015, we entered into an amended and restated multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the amended agreement ), among the company, prudential investment management, inc. ( prudential ) and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein, which amends and restates the note purchase and private shelf agreement dated july 21, 2014. pursuant to the amended agreement, we issued and sold through a private placement a principal amount of 88.9 million (approximately $100 million) of 1.785% series c senior notes due june 18, 2025 (the 2025 notes ). we used the net proceeds from this issuance and sale of the 2025 notes for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. in december 2014, we entered into a multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the metlife agreement ) with accredited institutional purchasers named therein pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell $75 million of 3.25% series a senior notes having a seven-year term (the 2022 notes ) and $75 million of 3.72% series b senior notes having a twelve-year term (the 2027 notes ). in february 2015, we issued and sold the 2022 notes and the 2027 notes pursuant to the metlife agreement. we used the net proceeds from these issuance and sales for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock decreased by $216.2 million during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period of the prior year. from the inception of our share repurchase program in august 1999 to december 31, 2015, we have repurchased 58.2 million shares. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, we purchased 5.7 million shares for an aggregate cost of $406.4 million , as compared to purchases of 9.8 million shares for an aggregate cost of $618.2 million during 2014. we believe that the repurchase of our common stock is a favorable means of returning value to our shareholders and we also repurchase our stock to offset the dilutive effect of our share-based compensation programs. repurchases of our common stock may vary depending upon the level of other investing activities and the share price. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our share repurchases. as noted above, we refinanced our existing $700 million credit facility during december 2015, increasing the principal amount there under to $850 million. the credit facility matures on december 4, 2020 and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. although the credit facility does not mature until december 2020, all amounts borrowed under the terms of the credit facility are reflected in the current liabilities section in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because the credit facility contains a subjective material adverse event clause, which allows the debt holders to call the loans under the credit facility if we fail to notify the syndicate of such an event. applicable interest rates on borrowings under the credit facility generally range from 0.875 to 1.375 percentage points above the london interbank offered rate or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate, based on our leverage ratio, or the prevailing prime rate plus a maximum spread of up to 0.375%, based on our leverage ratio. 64 net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in less cash provided of $248.0 million during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period of the prior year. at december 31, 2015, we had $573.0 million outstanding under the credit facility. the general availability of funds under the credit facility was further reduced by $1.0 million for a letter of credit that was issued in connection with claims under our workers compensation policy. the credit facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of subsidiaries of the company, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates , and certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations . the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility. the obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness, cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness and a change of control default. since december 2013, we have issued and sold through private placements senior notes having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $600 million pursuant to certain note purchase agreements (collectively, the senior note agreements ). the senior note agreements contain affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for agreements of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of our subsidiaries, priority indebtedness, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates, certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations. the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation, as defined in the senior note agreements, not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the covenants of the senior note agreements. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. should we elect to prepay the senior notes, such aggregate prepayment will include the applicable make-whole amount(s), as defined within the applicable senior note agreements. additionally, in the event of a change in control of the company or upon the disposition of certain assets of the company the proceeds of which are not reinvested (as defined in the senior note agreements), we may be required to prepay all or a portion of the senior notes. the obligations under the senior notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the applicable senior note agreement, each of which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness and cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness. other commitments, contingencies and guarantees under our workers compensation insurance policies for u.s. employees, we have retained the first $300,000, $300,000 and $250,000 in claim liability per incident with aggregate maximum claim liabilities per year of $3.5 million , $2.3 million and $2.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 201 4 and 201 3 , respectively. workers compensation expense recognized during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and our respective liability for such claims as of december 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 was not material. claims incurred during the years e nded december 31, 2015 and 2014 are relatively undeveloped as of december 31, 201 5 . therefore, it is possible that we could incur additional healthcare and wage indemnification costs beyond those previously recognized up to our aggregate liability for each of the respec tive claim years. for the years ended on or pr ior to december 31, 2013 , based on our retained claim liability per incident and our aggregate claim liability per year, our maximum liability in excess of the amounts deemed probable and previously recognized , is not material as of december 31, 2015. as of december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $1.3 million to the insurance companies as security for these claims in connection with these policies. 65 under our current employee healthcare insurance policy for u.s. employees, we retain claims liability risk up to $42 5,000 , $375 ,000 and $325 ,000 per incident per year in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. we recognized employee healthcare claim expense of $34.6 million, $32.0 million and $29 . 2 million during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, which represents actual claims paid and an estimate of our liability for the uninsured portion of employee healthcare obligations that have been incurred but not paid. should employee health insurance claims exceed our estimated liability, we would have further obligations. our estimated liability for healthcare claims that have been incurred but not paid as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 was $ 4. 8 million and $4.1 million, respectively. we have total contingent consideration liabilities outstanding of up to $ 1 1 . 4 million primarily related to the achievement of certain revenue milestones. we have recorded $5 . 9 and $6.3 million of contingent consideration liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we have not accrued for $5. 5 million of contingent consideration liabilities, related to the acquisition of an intangible asset in 2008 , as we do not deem the achievement of associated revenue milestones to be probable of o ccurring as of december 31, 2015 . w e are contractually obligated to make the following payments in the years below: contractual obligations (in thousands) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 775,745 $ 20,069 $ 40,137 $ 40,137 $ 675,402 operating leases 64,880 16,222 24,724 12,928 11,006 purchase obligations (2) 161,276 135,564 17,240 4,408 4,064 minimum royalty payments 3,124 889 1,268 614 353 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,005,025 $ 172,744 $ 83,369 $ 58,087 $ 690,825 (1) long-term debt amounts include interest payments associated with long-term debt. (2) purchase obligations include agreements and purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities, pricing, and approximate timing of purchase transactions. these commitments do not reflect u nrecognized tax benefits of $7.2 million and deferred compensation liabilities of $2.3 million as of december 31, 201 5 as the timing of recognitio n is uncertain. refer to note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2015 included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits. 66 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manuf acturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended dece mber 31, 2015, approximately 25% of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 28% and 26% for the year ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for three of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands , singapore and dubai , the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a hedging instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year . from time to time, we may also enter into other foreign currency exchange contracts or foreign-denominated debt issuances to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific balance sheet exposures, including net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries . see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding euro-denominated notes issued during 2015 that we designated as a hedge of our euro net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2015 . we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions. as a result, no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations for the years ended decem ber 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 . our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales is to employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, with the exception of certain emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge our exposure. we hedge approximately 85% of the estimated exposure from intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and swiss franc. we have additional unhedged foreign currency exposures related to foreign services and emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchase and sales t otaled $ 1 76.1 million and $1 86 . 7 million at dec ember 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively . at december 31, 2015, we had $2.5 million of net unrealized gains on foreign currency exchange contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax expense. our foreign currency exchange impacts are comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and exp enses; 2) the impact of hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is di fferent from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projecte d revenues and expenses for 2016 , excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in 67 currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce oper ating income by approximately $13 million. this level is higher than in previous years due to the addition of estimated unhedged foreign currency exposures , including emerging market currencies that have higher relative revenue growth and volatility. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, a they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. in december 201 5 , we refinanced our existing $ 700 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated credit agreement relating to a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $ 850 million with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on december 4 , 20 20 (the new credit facility and the previous credit facility are referred to collectively as the credit facility ) and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. alt hough the credit facility does not mature until december 4 , 20 20 , all individual borrowings under the terms of the credit facility have a stated term between 30 and 180 days. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate a portion of our interest rate risk through june 30, 2016. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2015 were $573.0 million at a weighted-average effective interest rate of 1.9 %. based on amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2015 and assuming we do not enter into additional interest rate swap agreements following th eir expiration on june 30, 2016 , an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $5.3 million on an annualized basis. the variable interest rate associated with $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.36% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. beginning on march 28, 2013, the variable interest rate associated with an additional $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 1.64% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges . at december 31, 2015, we had $0.2 million in unrealized losses on interest rate swaps, recorded in other comprehensive income, net of related tax benefit. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we purchased marketable debt securities, which are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet included in this annual report on form 10-k. the fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities is subject to changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2015, we estimate that a 1% increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our marketable securities portfolio by approximately $0.8 million. additionally, our cash equivalents and marketable securities are subject to credit risk. the fair value of our investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results and other factors. to minimize this risk, we invest in high quality investments with original maturities of two years or less. we perform periodic evaluations of the credit ratings related to cash equivalents and marketable securities.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public a nd they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. 5 part i item 1. business company overview idexx was incorporated in delaware in 1983. we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing m arkets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments, consumables and rapid assay test kits ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services; practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinarians; biological mat erials testing , laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry and dairy ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. description of business by segment we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, which we refer to as livestock , poultry and dairy ( lpd ) . our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-car e medical diag nostics market ( opti medical ) with our pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2016, sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 39 percent of our overall revenue. see part 1, item 1a. risk factors. , item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 201 6, included in this annual report on f orm 10-k for more information about our segments and revenue from customers outside of the u.s. companion animal group cag provides veterinarians with the diagnostic capabilities and information management solutions that enhance the health and well-being of pets. we believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by idexx, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering, comprise a unique competitive advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. we believe that w ith the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and effectively communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. we believe that t hese capabilities, enabled by the use of idexx products and services, improve the financial health of the veterinary practice. 6 cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from all of idexx diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision making . in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarian and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. vetconnect plus is currently available in north america, australia, new zealand, japan, israel and i n numerous countrie throughout europe. in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis and coagulation analyzers, associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we sell three chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst dx and the catalyst one analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by opti medical systems, inc. ( opti medical ), one of our wholly- owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by idexx. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers in clude glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein and many others . tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease. 7 the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital, fructosamine and total thyroxine ( t 4 ). key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum a nd urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterin arians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our fructosamine test helps veterinarians to diagnose and manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments and adjust insulin dosages. we launched our total t 4 test globally for use on the catalyst one analyzer during the first quarter of 2015 and for use on the catalyst dx analyzer early in the third quarter of 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing and managing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. the catalyst one analyzer, launched in november 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer, offering an attractive in-house chemistry option when a single sample drawer is sufficient for a clinic work-flow requirements. the catalyst one analyzer currently offers an expanding menu of 30 tests, including tests for thyroid disease, kidney disease, diabetes and therapeutic drug monitoring. we also have two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by opti medical. sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab instruments. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the first and only in-house analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original lasercyte hematology analyzer and the latest generation lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx he matology analyzer and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders . the procyte dx analyzer, our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx an alyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for many animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabb it, gerbil, pig, guinea pig, mini pig , llama, alpaca, camel, sheep, goat, dolphin and hamster ) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. immunoassay testing instruments . during the first quarter of 2014, we launched the snap pro mobile d evice , whic h automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the snap pro mobile screen, or via vetconnect plus . in addition, the snap pro mobile d evice improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. in january 2017 , we launched proread for the snap pro mobile device . proread is a software upgrade that enables the snap pro mobile device to interpret the test results. 8 with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx a nalyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, snap feline triple test and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . in april 2016, we launch ed sedivue dx in north america . in the fourth quarter of 2016 we launched sedivue dx in the uk and australia . sedivue dx is the first and only veterinary in -clinic urine sediment analyzer. it is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis. sedivue dx brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform a complete urinalysis in approximately 3 minutes. sedivue dx uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinically relevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record. the i dexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capabili ty. ivls securely connects to the i nternet, and in this way enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services , remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus . we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx, catalyst one, l asercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers , snap pro mobile device, snapshot dx analyzer and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid a ssays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instru mentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded au tomatically by the snapshot dx a nalyzer or activated and captured automa tically by the snap pro mobile d evice and interpreted using proread, as discu ssed above. the principal snap rapid a ssay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : nap 4dx plus, which tests for the six vector -borne diseases ; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap heart worm rt, which tests for hear tworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which te sts for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a commo n cause of waterborne infection; and snap lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice in the northern hemisphere . 9 single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to aids in humans), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, new zealand, south africa, south korea and brazil . we have large reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large logistics hubs of major air cargo carriers . customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice in the northern hemisphere . in the third quarter of 2015, we launched idexx sdma in north america, a new kidney test which detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. upon its introduction in north america, idexx sdma was included in every chemistry panel submitted by our customers at no incremental charge. during the first quarter of 2016, we launched idexx sdma in all of the major european countries and australia, followed by a full international launch of idexx sdma during the remainder of 2016. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched hookworm and roundworm antigen tests to all fecal panels that already include the whipworm antigen test. these new intestinal parasite panels detect the presence of intestinal worms left undiagnosed by current methods, finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmi tted by telephone and over the i nternet. our diag nostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe and asia. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems veterinary software and services . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone, dvmax, animana and neo. idexx neo, which we launched in the united states during the third quarter of 2015, and idexx animana are cloud-based practice management systems available in the u.s., europe and australia. we also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including better choice, vpm, vetlink and beefree. our practice management services include payment solutions, data backup &amp; recovery, cornerstone coach, practice profile and petdetect boarding collars. 10 in addition, we offer client communication and preventive care plan management services designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. we commercially launched pet health network pro in 2013, which is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based service that replaces cumbersome plastic anatomy models with engaging, three-dimension anatomical animations on a desktop or mobile device. using these services in the exam room improves client communication and facilitates adherence to veterinarian recommendations. in september 2014, we acquired petly plans, a cloud-based software solution for veterinary practices to customize, manage and monitor a range of monthly payment preventive care plans for their pet owner clients. petly plans complements the pet health network suite of client marketing services by making it easier for practices to increase access to the best care and offer plans that spread the cost of that care, including examinations, vaccines and diagnostics, over the course of the year. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. di agnostic imaging systems . previously named idexx vetlab service and accessories, o ur di agnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three di agnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the idexx imagevue dr50, the idexx imagevue dr40 and the idexx imagevue cr20. our newest radiography system, the idexx imagevue dr50, was launched in june 2016 and enables low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality images, reducing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. the idexx imagevue dr50 system also offers wireless capabilities for flexibility in patient positioning. our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) sof tware called idexx-pacs, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. idexx web pacs is our cloud-based software-as-a-service ( saas ) offering for viewing, accessing storing and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. idexx web pacs updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. the new software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners. idexx i-vision mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with idexx digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. water we provide innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water, helping to ensure water safety for billions of people around the world. our principal products are the coli lert, colilert-18 and colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater and water from private wells. 11 our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardi a t esting products. in july 2016, we launched legiolert, a simple culture method test for the detection of legionella pneumophila , the most common legionella species in water and the primary cause of legionnaires disease. the legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched the quanti-tray sealer plus, a next generation instrument of the previously available quanti-tray sealer 2x. these instruments are used with the quanti-tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. livestock, poultry and dairy we sell diagnostic tests , services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic p roducts are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers and processors. our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the ani mal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine , leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth and vulnerability to secondary infections. our principal dairy products use our snap test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product lines are snap beta-lactam st and snapduo beta-tetra st, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in june 2016, we launched the rapid visual pregnancy test for cattle, which is a point-of-care test that can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding. this test provides a quick and accurate identifier using whole blood samples that will enable veterinarians to optimize value-added medical consulting services while on farm visits. 12 other opti medical through opti medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer, which launched in 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. in addition, opti medical manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market, and provides the dry slides for electrolyte testing on the catalyst analyzers for our cag segment . other activities we own ce rtain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek t o commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are included in the other segment. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in a ll major regions including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical ervice requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. effective january 1, 2015, we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. prior to januar y 1, 2015 , w e market ed our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force. we market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s., canada, europe and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $101.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 5.7 percent of our consolidated revenue, $99.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or 6.2 percent of our consolidated revenue and $98.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or 6.6 percent of our consolidated revenue. 13 patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our product and offerings, strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; a n exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017 and continuing into 2022 ; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2017 and continuing into 2022 ; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap produc ts that expire beginning in 2019 and continuing into 2022 ; a p atent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables th at expire beginning in 2023 and continuing into 2036; patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire in 2026; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of sdma that expire in 2029. in addition, we have a pending u.s. patent application concerning methods for detecting sdma. if this patent is granted, we expect that it would expire in 2036. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to us , a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; our online ordering platform that enables direct ordering of (including establishing automatic reorder schedules for) our consumables, tests and other products by our customers; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our investment in diagnostic innovations that results in new product offerings that often are patentable and that expand the test menu for our in-house instruments and/or reference laboratory business; our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2016, and are expected to expire during 2017, the expiration of these patents , individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations. in addition , we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights . to the extent some of our products may now , or in the future , embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 14 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties . w e rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases , these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine and t 4 slides), vetlyte consumables, lasercyte and lasercyte dx co nsumables, vettest, vetautoread and procyte dx analyzers and consumables , sedivue dx urinalysis instrument and components of our snap pro mobile device. vettest and catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry sl ides in the veterinary market, excluding the eu, o ther than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. 15 competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human and animal health pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. se veral of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, unique product innovations, fully integrated technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca inc., abax is, inc., heska corporation, zoetis inc ., samsung electronics co., ltd. and fujifilm north america corporation . in 2015, following our transition to an all-direct sales and distribution model in the u.s., certain of our competitors began to sell products through our formerly exclusive u.s. distributors. see part ii item 7. results of operations and trends for more information. we also compete in international markets with fujifilm holdings corporation, arkray, inc. and bionote, inc. water, livestock , poultry and dairy testing products. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. veterinary software, services and d i agnostic imaging ystems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america and europe. o ur largest competitor is henry schein in north america and the u.k., which offers several systems and leverages their animal health distribution business in sales and service. we also compete with numerous focused smaller companies throughout the markets in which we offer veterinary software . electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. 16 government regulation many of ou r products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we are also required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our lpd manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. 17 human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class i and/or class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. the european union regulates and restricts the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these requirements include the biocidal products regulation, which may require the use of approved biocides in our products prior to being used or sold in the european union, and the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign o r reformulation of our products. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export laws and regulations, including u.s. import and export control and sanctions laws and laws and regulations governing the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data. a ny acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of governmen t regulation. these may involve , medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees as of february 6 , 201 7 , we had approximately 7,365 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com . references to our website in this annual report on form 10-k are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com . 18 item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this report. our business lines are highly competitive and our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a material negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related recurring sales of consumable products, services and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of the information and transactions of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of reference laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand, develop and advance the productivity of our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay kits and instrument consumables ( kits and consumables ) in the u.s.; attracting, developing and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. 19 if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers failure to comply with applicable regulations or their contractual obligations. problems with suppliers could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; vetlyte electrolyte consumables, procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer; image capture plates used in our diagnostic imaging systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, and water testing products. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products with short term contracts or on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services, and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. our competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market include companies that develop, manufacture and sell veterinary diagnostic tests and commercial veterinary reference laboratories, as well as corporate hospital chains that operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals, such as vca inc. (formerly named vca antech, inc.). in january 2017, mars, incorporated and vca announced that mars, incorporated agreed to acquire vca, with the acquisition expected to close in the third quarter of 2017. if this acquisition closes, it could result in the combination of two large u.s. veterinary hospital chains into a vertically integrated corporate hospital chain providing reference laboratory services to its hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. while we believe that our reference laboratory service offerings are competitively differentiated due to our proprietary products and services, such as the idexx sdma test, there can be no assurance that increased consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers would not have a negative impact on our ability to compete. for more information regarding the risks presented by consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers, see consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business below. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets through the development of new technology, the acquisition of rights to use existing technologies or the use of existing technologies when patents protecting such existing technologies expire. new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. with our transition to an all-direct sales strategy for our kits and consumables in the u.s. effective january 1, 2015, we did not renew our distribution agreements with our former key u.s. distribution partners after their expiration at the end of 2014, including exclusive distribution agreements with some of the largest u.s. distributors of companion animal veterinary products. our former u.s. distribution partners currently promote and sell competitive instruments, consumables and rapid assay products. which may adversely affect the retention of our customers for our kits and consumables and the sales and distribution of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of certain of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda or the epa. our diagnostic tests for animal health applications that involve the detection of infectious diseases, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the manufacture and sale of our products, as well as our research and development processes, are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. for example, the european union regulates the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these regulations include the biocidal products regulation, which may require approval for the use of certain biocides in our products prior to being used or sold in the european union, and the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization 21 and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products and may reduce or eliminate the availability of certain parts and components used in our products and services in the event our suppliers are unable to comply with the applicable regulations in a timely and cost-effective manner. any redesign or reformulation or restricted supply of parts and components may negatively affect the availability or performance of our products and services, add testing lead-times for products and reformulated products, reduce our margins, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. in addition, the costs to comply with these regulations may be significant. any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. these legal and regulatory requirements are complex and subject to change, and we continue to evaluate their impact. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products; our business practices in the u.s. and abroad, such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws; and immigration and travel restrictions. these legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future. any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could result in fines, penalties and sanctions; product recalls; suspensions or discontinuations of, or limitations or restrictions on, our ability to design, manufacture, market, import, export or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business veterinarians are our primary customers for our cag products and services, and the u.s. veterinary industry has been consolidating in recent years. the number of owners of veterinary hospitals has been declining, and an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include mars, incorporated (owner of banfield pet hospitals, blue pearl veterinary partners and pet partners), national veterinary associates and vca inc. (formerly named vca antech, inc.). in january 2017, mars, incorporated and vca announced that mars, incorporated agreed to acquire vca, with the acquisition expected to close in the third quarter of 2017. a similar trend exists in other countries, such as in the u.k. and the nordic countries, and may in the future also develop in other international markets. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca, our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies, and there can be no assurance that hospitals that otherwise become affiliated with these companies would not shift all or a portion of their testing to such reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies or those that establish other affiliations with these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. 22 we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. for example, the demand for our bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of regulatory changes in the european union, including the european union standing committee on the food chain and animal health agreement to allow european union member states the option to eliminate bse testing of healthy cattle at slaughter. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products or our services do not comply with evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection we offer products and services that collect and use data provided by client practices and individuals , including practice management systems for veterinary practices (e.g., cornerstone and neo ), online client communication tools and services (e.g., pet health network pro), and cloud-based technology through vetconnect plus that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from idexx in-clinic analyzers, our rapid assays and reference laboratories in one place. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various idexx websites and collect contact and other personally identifiable information from our customers and visitors to our websites. federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of personally identifiable information, including data that we receive from our employees, customers, vendors and visitors to our websites and data collected by our customers and others when using our products and services. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions, including requiring local storage and processing of data. these laws and regulations continue to develop, are subject to differing interpretations and may be applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may be inconsistent with our current data protection and privacy policies and practices. 23 for example, on october 6, 2015, the court of justice of the european union decided that the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed transfers of personal data to the u.s. in compliance with applicable eu data protection laws, was invalid. on february 2, 2016, u.s. and european commission officials announced they had agreed upon a framework for a new data sharing agreement, called the eu-u.s. privacy shield, to replace the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework. the european commission and the u.s. department of commerce issued the final text for the privacy shield framework in july 2016, and it became operational when the u.s. department of commerce began accepting applications for privacy shield ce rtification on august 1, 2016. we submitted our self-certification under the privacy shield in september 2016 and adopted this framework to transfer personal data to the u.s. in compliance with eu data protection laws. effective as of january 10, 2017, the u.s. department of commerce completed its review of our self-certification, and we joined the privacy shield list of participating organizations. additionally, in april 2016, the eu parliament adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which, among other things, imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance and is expected to take effect in 2018. the costs associated with compliance with these evolving legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future and as a result may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us or our products and services to protect employee or customer data (including as a result of a breach by or of a third-party provider) or to comply with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles or our posted privacy policies could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business we are a global business, with 39 percent of our revenue during the year ended december 31, 2016, attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside of the u.s. any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, australian dollar and brazilian real, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales and profits that are made in those currencies. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar has a greater adverse effect on the profits from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars that are exported to international markets and a lesser effect on profits from foreign sourced products and services due to a natural hedge from international expenses denominated in the corresponding foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2016, approximately 21 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 20 percent and 22 percent for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars as well as affect our overall competitiveness in international markets. the accumulated impacts from any continued, longer-term growth in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see note 17 hedging instruments in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. 24 currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2016, approximately 39 percent of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 39 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015, and 43 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, fluctuations in oil prices, increased border protection and restriction on travel, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export restrictions, duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters, unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets, security concerns and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 25 our business sells many products through distributors, which present risks that could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products outside of the u.s. through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products outside the u.s. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failing to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, system disruptions and security breaches, and disruptions, attacks or breaches of information systems could adversely affect our business the operation of all of our facilities, as well as those of our third party business partners on which we rely, may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our business partners information systems, to keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems and our business partners information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses, through the internet (including via devices and applications connected to the internet), email attachments and persons with 26 access to these information systems. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks. any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. while we have implemented network security and internal control measures and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack or security breach. in addition, we offer products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things, such as our connected devices (e.g., idexx vetlab instruments). while we have implemented security measures to protect our connected products and services from cyberattacks, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains. if we or our business partners were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, or our customers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach via any of our connected products and services, it could result in a period of shutdown of information systems during which we (or our customers) may not be able to operate, the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement, potential liability for damages to our customers, reputational damage and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information (including any of our confidential or proprietary information) as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, damage our ability to develop (and protect our rights to) our proprietary technologies and adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. risks associated with fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio we invest our surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, including corporate bonds, commercial paper, and a short-term money market fund which invests in securities issued or sponsored by the u.s. government. the value and liquidity of these marketable securities may fluctuate substantially, and could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio, geopolitical events or other factors. any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in the value of our portfolio could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, timing of regulatory approvals and licenses, litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. 27 future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in the u.s. and many other international jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, the various tax rates applied to the earnings of our activities are subject to significant change. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. also, we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see note 17 hedging instruments in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. 24 currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2016, approximately 39 percent of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 39 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015, and 43 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, fluctuations in oil prices, increased border protection and restriction on travel, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export restrictions, duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters, unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets, security concerns and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the u.s. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 25 our business sells many products through distributors, which present risks that could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products outside of the u.s. through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products outside the u.s. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failing to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, system disruptions and security breaches, and disruptions, attacks or breaches of information systems could adversely affect our business the operation of all of our facilities, as well as those of our third party business partners on which we rely, may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; leipzig, germany; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our business partners information systems, to keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems and our business partners information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses, through the internet (including via devices and applications connected to the internet), email attachments and persons with 26 access to these information systems. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks. any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. while we have implemented network security and internal control measures and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack or security breach. in addition, we offer products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things, such as our connected devices (e.g., idexx vetlab instruments). while we have implemented security measures to protect our connected products and services from cyberattacks, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains. if we or our business partners were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, or our customers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach via any of our connected products and services, it could result in a period of shutdown of information systems during which we (or our customers) may not be able to operate, the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement, potential liability for damages to our customers, reputational damage and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information (including any of our confidential or proprietary information) as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, damage our ability to develop (and protect our rights to) our proprietary technologies and adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. risks associated with fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio we invest our surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, including corporate bonds, commercial paper, and a short-term money market fund which invests in securities issued or sponsored by the u.s. government. the value and liquidity of these marketable securities may fluctuate substantially, and could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio, geopolitical events or other factors. any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in the value of our portfolio could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, timing of regulatory approvals and licenses, litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. 27 future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in the u.s. and many other international jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, the various tax rates applied to the earnings of our activities are subject to significant change. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. also, we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments not applicable. 28 item 2. properties our worldwide headquarters is located on a company-owned, 65-acre site in westbrook, maine where we occupy a 647,000 square foot building utilized for manufacturing, research and development, marketing, sales and general and a dministrative support functions . additional property ownership and leasing arrangements with approximate square footage, purpose and location are as follows: additional properties owned : 34,200 square feet of laboratory space located in the u.s., used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 23,000 square feet of office and laboratory space located in the u.k., used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 3,100 square feet of laboratory space located in canada, used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag additional properties leased : 5 37 ,000 total square feet of laboratory, office and warehousing space located throughout the u.s. , europe, canada, australia, new zealand, asia and south africa, primarily used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 114,400 square feet of industrial space in tennessee for distribution and warehousing related to various lines of business 100,100 square feet of distribution, warehousing and office space in the netherlands, which serves as our european headquarters 84,300 square feet of office, manufacturing and warehousing space in georgia related to our opti medical line of business 69,300 square feet of office space in w isconsin related to our veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems line of business of cag 65 ,000 square feet of office space in maine for corporate, customer service and information technology support services 52,800 total square feet of office and manufacturing space in france, switzerland and brazil related to our livestock, poultry and dairy line of business 7,600 square feet of manufacturing space in the u.k. related to our water line of business we believe that our owned and leased properties are generally in good condition, are well-maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on our business. item 3. legal proceedings due to the nature of our activities, we are at times subject to pending and threatened legal actions that arise out of the ordinary course of business. in the opinion of management, based in part upon advice of legal counsel, the disposition of any such currently pending matters is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. however, the results of legal actions cannot be predicted with certainty. therefore, it is possible that our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more legal actions. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 29 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is quoted on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol idxx. the following table shows the quarterly range of high and low sale prices per share (1) of our common stock as reported on the nasdaq global select market for the years 2015 and 2016. for the quarter ended high low march 31, 2015 $ 84.26 $ 72.38 june 30, 2015 82.24 61.37 september 30, 2015 79.62 61.58 december 31, 2015 77.27 65.03 march 31, 2016 79.03 63.48 june 30, 2016 92.87 76.55 september 30, 2016 115.06 92.52 december 31, 2016 121.77 102.45 (1) 2015 prices have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split on june 15, 2015. holders of common stock as of february 6 , 201 7 , there were 494 holders of record of ou r common stock. because the majority of our common stock is held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. purchases of equity securities by the issuer during the three months ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased shares of common stock as described below: 1 period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share (b) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (1) (c) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (d) october 1, 2016 to october 31, 2016 67,500 $ 110.66 67,500 5,619,425 november 1, 2016 to november 30, 2016 1,000,947 108.65 1,000,947 4,618,478 december 1, 2016 to december 31, 2016 886,672 117.24 882,970 3,735,508 total 1,955,119 (2) $ 115.00 1,951,417 3,735,508 30 (1) as of december 31, 201 6 , our board of directors had approved the repurchase of up to 65 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in negotiated transactions pursuant to the company share repurchase program. the program was approved and announced on august 13, 1999, and the maximum number of shares that may be purchased under the program was subsequently increased on october 4, 1999, november 16, 1999, july 21, 2000, october 20, 2003, october 12, 2004, october 12, 2005, february 14, 2007, february 13, 2008, february 10, 2010, october 12, 2011, may 7, 2013 and again on july 16, 2014. effective june 15, 2015, an additional 8 million shares of our common stock was authorized for repurchase, increasing the total shares of common stock authorized to be repurchased by the company up from 57 million to 65 million shares. there is no specified expiration date for this repurchase program. there were no other repurchase programs outstanding during the thre e months ended december 31, 2016 , and no repurchase programs expired during the period. repurchases of 1,951,417 shares were made during the three months ended december 31, 201 6 , in transactions made pursuant to our repurchase program. (2) during the three months ended december 31, 2016, we received 3,702 shares of our common stock that were surrendered by employees in payment for the minimum required withholding taxes due on the vesting of restricted stock units and settlement of deferred stock units. in the above table, these shares are included in columns (a) and (b), but excluded from columns (c) and (d). these shares do not reduce the number of shares that may yet be purchased under the repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased 3,070,644 shares of our common stock in transactions made pursuant to our repurchase program and received 59,860 shares of common stock that were surrendered by employees in payment for the minimum required withholding taxes due on the vesting of restricted stock units and settlement of deferred stock units. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for further information. dividends we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. from time to time our board of directors may consider the declaration of a dividend. however, we have no intention to declare or pay a dividend at this time. 31 stock performance this graph compares our total stockholder returns, the total return for the standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ) 500 index , the total return for the s&amp;p 500 health care index and the total return for the nasdaq stock market index (u.s. companies) prepared by the center for research in security prices (the nasdaq index ). this graph assumes the investment of $100 on december 31, 2011, in idexx common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index, the s&amp;p 500 health care index and the nasdaq index and assumes dividends, if any, are reinvested. measurement points are the last trading days of the years ended december 2011 to 2016. 12/31/20 11 12/31/20 12 12/30 /20 13 12/3 1 /201 4 12/3 1 / 2015 12/31/ 2016 idexx laboratories, inc. $ 100.00 $ 120.58 $ 138.23 $ 192.66 $ 189.50 $ 304.76 nasdaq index 100.00 117.45 164.57 188.84 201.98 219.89 s&amp;p 500 health care index 100.00 117.89 166.76 209.02 223.42 217.41 s&amp;p 500 index 100.00 116.00 153.57 174.60 177.01 198.18 32 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. the selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. this financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k . on may 6, 2015, we announced a two-for-one split of our outstanding shares of common stock which was effected through a stock dividend that was paid through the issuance of treasury shares on june 15, 2015. all share and per share amounts presented below, for periods prior to june 15, 2015, retroactively reflect the effect of the stock split. for the years ended december 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 income statement data: revenue $ 1,775,423 $ 1,601,892 $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 $ 1,293,338 cost of revenue 799,987 711,622 669,691 620,940 594,190 gross profit 975,436 890,270 816,116 756,118 699,148 expenses: sales and marketing 317,058 299,955 283,708 243,492 216,962 general and administrative 207,017 182,510 173,890 157,861 137,609 research and development 101,122 99,681 98,263 88,003 82,014 impairment charge - 8,212 - - - income from operations 350,239 299,912 260,255 266,762 262,563 interest expense, net (28,393) (26,771) (13,700) (3,501) (1,946) income before provision for income taxes 321,846 273,141 246,555 263,261 260,617 provision for income taxes 99,792 81,006 64,604 75,467 82,330 net income 222,054 192,135 181,951 187,794 178,287 less: net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest 9 57 45 (6) 20 net income attributable to idexx laboratories, inc. stockholders $ 222,045 $ 192,078 $ 181,906 $ 187,800 $ 178,267 earnings per share: basic $ 2.47 $ 2.07 $ 1.82 $ 1.77 $ 1.62 diluted $ 2.44 $ 2.05 $ 1.79 $ 1.74 $ 1.59 weighted average shares outstanding: basic 89,732 92,601 100,094 106,318 109,969 diluted 90,884 93,649 101,503 107,970 112,311 balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 154,901 $ 128,994 $ 322,536 $ 279,058 $ 223,986 marketable securities (1) 236,949 213,591 - - - cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 391,850 $ 342,585 $ 322,536 $ 279,058 $ 223,986 working capital $ (88,984) $ (35,127) $ (61,508) $ 174,353 $ 163,204 total assets $ 1,530,704 $ 1,474,993 $ 1,384,211 $ 1,230,516 $ 1,103,602 total long-term debt (2) $ 593,110 $ 597,085 $ 350,000 $ 150,359 $ 1,394 total stockholders' equity (deficit) $ (108,213) $ (83,995) $ 117,589 $ 518,214 $ 636,257 (1) during the year ended december 31, 2015 and 2016 , we purchased marketable debt securities, which are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets on a trade date basis. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our marketable securities. ( 2 ) between december 2013 and june 2015, we issued and sold approximately $600 million in senior notes through private placements at fixed interest rates ranging from 1.785 percent to 4.04 percent . see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. 33 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this annual report on form 10 k . we have included certain terms and abbreviations used throughout this annual report on form 10-k in the " glossary of terms and selected abbreviations. description of business segments . we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, which we refer to as livestock , poultry and dairy ( lpd ) . our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-care medical diag nostics market ( opti medical ) with our pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including our product and service categories, and our geographic areas. during the second quarter of 2016, we renamed our customer information management and diagnostic imaging systems line of business in the cag segment to veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems. financial results were not adjusted as a result of this name change. during the fourth quarter of 2016, we modified our management reporting to rename idexx vetlab service and accessories to cag diagnostics service and accessories and reclassified the location of snap pro service plans previously located in cag diagnostics capital - instruments to cag diagnostics service and accessories. the amo unt of revenue reclassified was $0.5 million during the year ended december 31, 2015, and $1.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2016. the amount reclassified was less than $0.1 million during the year ended december 31, 2014. certain costs not allocated to our operating segments and are instead reported under the caption unallocated amounts . these costs include costs that do not align with one of our existing operating segments or are cost prohibitive to allocate, which primarily consist of our r&amp;d function, regional or country expenses, certain foreign currency revaluation gains and losses on monetary balances in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currency and unusual items. corporate support function costs (such as information technology, facilities, human resources, finance and legal), health benefits and incentive compensation are charged to our business segments at pre-determined budgeted amounts or rates. differences from these pre-determined budgeted amounts or rates are captured within unallocated amounts. effective january 1, 2016, we modified our management reporting to the chief operating decision maker to provide a more comprehensive view of the performance of our operating segments by including the capitalization and subsequent recognition of variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs, which adjusts the timing of cost recognition from when the variance is created to the period in which the related inventory is sold. prior to january 1, 2016, the capitalization and subsequent recognition of these variances were not allocated to our operating segments and were instead reported under the caption unallocated amounts . 34 the segment gross profit and income (loss) from operations within this annual report on form 10-k for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, has been retrospectively revised to reflect the changes to our segment performance metrics described above. the following is a summary of revised segment gross profit from operations for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014: net impact of standard cost for the year ended variance capitalization and for the year ended adjusted gross profit december 31, 2015 percent of subsequent recognition december 31, 2015 percent of (dollars in thousands) as previously reported revenue to the operating segments as adjusted revenue cag $ 727,626 53.6% $ 1,677 $ 729,303 53.8% water 68,785 71.0% 168 68,953 71.2% lpd 77,227 60.7% 2,760 79,987 62.9% other 10,574 49.0% (293) 10,281 47.6% unallocated amounts 6,058 n/a (4,312) 1,746 n/a total company $ 890,270 55.6% $ - $ 890,270 55.6% net impact of standard cost for the year ended variance capitalization and for the year ended adjusted gross profit december 31, 2014 percent of subsequent recognition december 31, 2014 percent of (dollars in thousands) as previously reported revenue to the operating segments as adjusted revenue cag $ 655,197 53.6% $ (3,002) $ 652,195 53.3% water 62,924 66.4% (348) 62,576 66.1% lpd 89,519 63.4% (4,461) 85,058 60.2% other 14,236 53.0% 178 14,414 53.7% unallocated amounts (5,760) n/a 7,633 1,873 n/a total company $ 816,116 54.9% $ - $ 816,116 54.9% the following is a summary of revised segment operating income (loss) from operations for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014: net impact of standard cost for the year ended variance capitalization and for the year ended adjusted operating income (loss) december 31, 2015 percent of subsequent recognition december 31, 2015 percent of (dollars in thousands) as previously reported revenue to the operating segments as adjusted revenue cag $ 231,642 17.1% $ 1,677 $ 233,319 17.2% water 44,584 46.0% 168 44,752 46.2% lpd 24,397 19.2% 2,760 27,157 21.4% other 156 0.7% (293) (137) (0.6%) unallocated amounts (867) n/a (4,312) (5,179) n/a total company $ 299,912 18.7% $ - $ 299,912 18.7% net impact of standard cost for the year ended variance capitalization and for the year ended adjusted operating income (loss) december 31, 2014 percent of subsequent recognition december 31, 2014 percent of (dollars in thousands) as previously reported revenue to the operating segments as adjusted revenue cag $ 203,536 16.6% $ (3,002) $ 200,534 16.4% water 39,262 41.4% (348) 38,914 41.1% lpd 33,788 23.9% (4,461) 29,327 20.8% other 2,479 9.2% 178 2,657 9.9% unallocated amounts (18,810) n/a 7,633 (11,177) n/a total company $ 260,255 17.5% $ - $ 260,255 17.5% 35 the following is a discussion of the strategic and operating factors that we believe have the most significant effect on the performance of our business. companion animal group our strategy is to provide veterinarians with both the highest quality diagnostic information to support more advanced medical care and information management solutions that help demonstrate the value of diagnostics to pet owners and enable efficient practice management. by d oing so , we are able to build a mutually successful partnership with our veterinarian customers based on healthy pets, loyal customers and expanding practice revenues. cag diagnostics. we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. v eterinarians that utilize our full line of diagnostic modalities obtain a single view of a patient diagnostic results, which allows them to track and evaluate trends and achieve greater medical insight. the breadth and complementary nature of our diagnostic solutions also provides us scale in sales and distribution. to further increase our customer reach, effective january 1, 2015, we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. and did not renew our annual contracts with our u.s. distribution partners. under this approach, we take orders, ship product, invoice and receive payment for all rapid assay test kits and idexx vetlab consumables in the u.s., aligning with our direct model for instruments, reference laboratory services, and other cag products and services. we believe these changes will continue to strengthen customer loyalty and help support growth of our diagnostic revenues in north america. our diagnostic capabilities generate both recurring and non-recurring revenues. revenues related to capital placements of our in-clinic idexx vetlab suite of instruments and our snap pro mobile device are non-recurring in nature in that they are sold to a particular customer only once. r evenues from the associated propri etary idexx vetlab consumables, snap rapid a ssay test kits, reference laboratory and consulting services, and extended maintenance agreements and accessories related to our idexx vetlab instruments and our snap pro mobile device are recurring in nature , in that they are regularly purchased by our customers, typically as they perform diagnostic testing as part of ongoing veterinary care services. our recurring revenues, most prominently idexx vetlab consumables and rapid assay test kits , have significantly higher gross margins than those provided by our instrument sales. therefore, the mix of recurring and non-recurring revenues in a particular period will impact our gross margins. diagnostic capital revenue. revenues related to the placement of the idexx vetlab suite of instruments are non-recurring in nature, in that the customer will buy an instrument once over its respective product life cycle, but will purchase consumables for that instrument on a recurring basis as they use that instrument for testing purposes. during the early stage of an instrument life cycle, we derive relatively greater revenues from instrument placements, while consumable sales become relatively more significant in later stages as the installed base of instruments increases and instrument placement revenues begin to decline. in the early stage of an instrument life cycle, placements are made primarily through sales transactions. as the market for the product matures, an increasing percentage of placements are made in transactions, sometimes referred to as reagent rentals, in which instruments are placed at customer sites at little or no cost in exchange for a long-term customer commitment to purchase instrument consumables. prior to the catalyst one instrument launch during november 2014, we pre-sold the instrument under a customer marketing program through which customers preordering a catalyst one were initially provided with the right to use a catalyst dx instrument. under this marketing program, we deferred $7 million of instrument revenue in 2014, which was fully recognized in 2015 upon delivery of the catalyst one instruments or customer election to keep the catalyst dx was received. 36 we place our catalyst chemistry analyzers through sales, leases, rental and other programs. in addition, we continue to place vettest instruments through sales, lease, rental and other programs, with substantially all of our revenues from that product line currently derived from consumabl e sales. as of december 31, 2016, these three chemistry analyzers provided for a combined active installed base of approximately 43,000 units globally, as compared to 40,000 units globally in 2015 . approximately 50 percent of 201 6 catalyst analyzer placements were to customers that are new to idexx, including customers who had been using instruments from one of our competitors, sometimes referred to as competitive accounts. generally, placement of an instrument with a new or competitive account is more attractive as the entire consumable stream associated with that placement represents incremental recurring revenue, whereas the consumable stream associated with a catalyst placement at a vettest customer substitutes a catalyst consumable stream for a vettest consumable stream. we have found that the consumables revenues increase when a customer upgrades from a vettest analyzer to a catalyst analyzer due to the superior test menu capability, flexibility and ease of use of the catalyst analyzers , which leads to additional testing by the customer. as we continue to experience growth in placements of catalyst analyzers and in sales of related consumables, we expect this growth to be partly offset by a decline in placements of vettest analyzers and in sales of related consumables. the lasercyte dx analyzer is our latest generation hematology analyzer, which we launched in 201 3 . in addition, we sell the procyte dx lasercyte and vetautoread an alyzers. as of december 31, 201 6 , these four hematology analyzers provided for a combined active installed base of approximately 31 ,000 units , as compared to 29,000 units in 2015 and 27,000 units in 2014. a substantial portion of procyte dx analyzer placements continue to be made at veterinary clinics that elect to upgrade from their lasercyte analyzer to a procyte dx analyzer. in 201 6 , approximately 50 percent of procyte placements were made at competitive accounts. we also continue to place a substantial number of lasercyte dx and lasercyte instruments, both new and recertified, as trade-ups from the vetautoread analyzer and at new and competitive accounts. as we continue to experience growth in placements of procyte dx analyzers and in sales of related consumables, we expect this growth to be partly offset by a decline in placements of lasercyte and vetautoread analyzers and a decrease in the associated recurring revenue stream . our sedivue dx instrument, which we launched in north america early in 2016 and in the u.k. and australia in the fourth quarter of 2016, is the first and only in-clinic analyzer to provide urine sediment analysis. this instrument and single-use consumable system provides an entirely new automated and highly accurate way to automate the in-house process of examining urine under a microscope. we provide customers with sedivue dx consumables that are charged upon utilization, which we refer to as pay-per-run, as compared to other instruments where we charge upon shipment of consumables. we reported total revenues of $24.2 million from sedivue dx instrument and pay-per-run sale during the year ended december 31, 2016. we seek to enhance the attractiveness and customer loyalty of our snap rapid assay tests , by providing the snap pro mobile device, which activates snap tests, properly times the run, captures , and saves images of the results and , in conjunction with ivls, records invoice charges in the patient record. beginning in january of 2017, with our proread software, the snap pro mobile device will interpret results. th ese features promote practice efficiency by eliminating manual entry of test results in patient records and also helps ensure that the services are recorded and accurately invoiced. in addition, snap pro mobile device results can be shared with pet owners on th e snap pro screen or , in conjunction with ivls, via vetconnect plus. we also sell the snapshot dx, which automatically reads certain snap test results and , in conjunction with ivls, records those results in the electronic medical record. we continue to work on enhancing the functionality of our analyzers to read the results of additional tests from our canine and feline family of rapid assay products. prior to 2014, the snapshot dx was our primary in-clinic solution for screening thyroid disease, cortisol, bile acids and interpreting snap rapid assay tests. upon the launch of the total thyroxine ( t 4 ) slide for use with our catalyst analyzers during 2015, we experienced a decline in snapshot dx placements. we reported revenues of $1.1 million from snapshot dx placements during the year ended december 31, 2016, which reflects approximately a $0.4 million decrease in revenue relative to the prior year. we reported revenues of $1.5 million from snapshot dx during the year ended december 31, 2015, which reflects approximately a $1 million decrease in revenue relative to the prior year. we will continue to service the existing snapshot dx install base . 37 our long-term success in the continuing growth of our cag recurring diagnostic product and services is dependent upon new customer acquisition, customer loyalty and retention of their recurring revenues, our ability to realize price increases based on our differentiated products and customer utilization of existing and new assays introduced for use on our analyzers. we continuously seek opportunities to enhance the care that veterinary professionals give to their patients and clients through supporting the implementation of real-time care testing work flows, which is performing tests and sharing test results with the client at the time of the patient visit. our latest generation of chemistry and hematology instruments demonstrates this commitment by offering enhanced ease of use, faster time to results , broader test menu and connectivity to various information technology platforms that enhance the value of the diagnostic information generated by the instruments. in addition, we provide marketing tools and customer support that help drive efficiencies in veterinary practice processes and allow practices to increase the number of clients they see on a daily basis. with all of our instrument product lines, we seek to differentiate our products from our competitors products based on time-to-result, ease-of-use, throughput, breadth of diagnostic menu, flexibility of menu selection, accuracy, reliability, ability to handle compromised samples, analytical capability of software, integration with the idexx vetlab station and vetconnect plus , client communications capabilities, education and training, and superior sales and customer service. our success depends, in part, on our ability to differentiate our products in a way that justifies a premium price. recurring diagnostic revenue. revenues from our proprietary idexx vetlab consumable products, our snap rapid assay test kits, outside reference laboratory and consulting services, and extended maintenance agreements and accessories related to our cag diagnostics instruments are considered recurring in nature. for the year ended december 31, 2016, recurring diagnostic revenue, which is both highly durable and profitable, accounts for approximately 72 percent of our consolidated revenue. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions, consisting of our idexx vetlab consumable products and snap rapid assay test kits, provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions . our outside reference laboratories provide veterinarians with the benefits of a more comprehensive list of diagnostic tests and access to consultations with board-certified veterinary specialists and pathologists, combined with the benefit of same-day or next-day turnaround times. we derive substantial revenues and margins from the sale of consumables that are used in idexx vetlab instruments and the multi-year consumable revenue stream is significantly more valuable than the placement of the instrument . our strategy is to increase diagnostic testing within veterinary practices by placing idexx vetlab instruments and increasing instrument utilization of consumables. utilization can increase due to a greater number of patient samples being run or to an increase in the number of tests being run per patient sample. our strategy is to increase both drivers. to increase utilization, we seek to educate veterinarians about best medical practices that emphasize the importance of chemistry, hematology and urinalysis testing for a variety of diagnostic purposes , as well as by introducing new testing capabilities that were previously not available to veterinarians . additionally, we have found that veterinarian adoption of vetconnect plus drives utilization by spurring testing across all idexx diagnostic modalities. in connection with the purchase of instruments, we also offer protocol-based rebate incentives when customers utilize the broad testing functionality of our analyzers. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include snap rapid assay tests that address important medical needs for particular diseases prevalent in the companion animal population. we seek to differentiate these tests from those of other in-clinic test providers and reference laboratory diagnostic service providers based on critically important sensitivity and specificity, as well as overall superior performance and ease of use by providing our customers with combination tests that test a single sample for up to six diseases at once , including the ability to utilize our snap pro mobile device . we further augment our product development and customer service efforts with sales and marketing programs that enhance medical awareness and understanding regarding certain diseases and the importance of diagnostic testing. 38 the expiration of a third party u.s. lateral flow patent in early 2015 enabled competitors to launch single use tests that competed with several of our early generation snap rapid assay products, including heartworm rt, fiv/felv combo test, feline triple, parvo and giardia. these companies partnered with several of our former national distributors to gain market share by competing primarily on price. in the second half of 2015, we stabilized our market share on these products in part by communicating the significant superiority in test sensitivity for both our canine and feline lines over competing tests using the lateral flow platform, and in part with more effective marketing and promotion programs. our higher sensitivity in the detection of infectious diseases is due in part to our snap platform, which is unique in using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) technology . test accuracy through specificity and sensitivity is a primary factor that customers value with these in-house tests, given the importance of detecting the presence of serious infectious diseases in the practice. we believe that more than half of all diagnostic testing by u.s. veterinarians is provided by outside reference laboratories such as idexx reference laboratories. in several markets outside the u.s., in-clinic testing is less prevalent and an even greater percentage of diagnostic testing is done in reference laboratories. we attempt to differentiate our reference laboratory testing services from those of competitive reference laboratories and competitive in-clinic offerings primarily on the basis of a unique and proprietary test menu, technology employed, quality, turnaround time, customer service and tools such as vetconnect plus that demonstrate the complementary manner in which our laboratory services work with our in-clinic offerings. profitability in our lab business is supported, in part, by our expanding business scale globally. profit improvements also reflect benefits from price increases and our ability to achieve efficiencies . when possible, we utilize core reference laboratories to service samples from other states or countries, expanding our customer reach without an associated expansion in our reference laboratory footprint. new laboratories that we open typically will operate at a loss until testing volumes achieve sufficient scale. acquired laboratories frequently operate less profitably than our existing laboratories and acquired laboratories may not achieve the profitability of our existing laboratory network for several years until we complete the implementation of operating improvements and efficiencies. therefore, in the short term, new and acquired reference laboratories generally will have a negative effect on our operating margin. recurring reference lab revenue growth is achieved both through increased sales to existing customers and through the acquisition of new customers. we believe the increased number of customer visits by our sales professionals as a result of the implementation of our all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. and the subsequent growth in our field sales organization has led to increased reference laboratory opportunities with customers who already use one of our in-clinic diagnostic modalities. in recent years, re curring reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting revenues have also been increased through reference laboratory acquisitions, customer list acquisitions, the opening of new reference laboratories, including laboratories that are co-located with large practice customers, and as a result of our up-front customer loyalty programs. our up-front customer loyalty programs associated with customer acquisitions provides incentives to customers in the form of cash payments or idexx points upon entering multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of pr oducts or services, including reference laboratory services. health monitoring and biological materials testing . we believe the acquisition of the research and diagnostic laboratory business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri has allowed us to leverage our expertise in veterinary diagnostics and expand our integrated offering of reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services and in-clinic testing solutions in the adjacent bioresearch market. veterinary software, services and di agnostic imaging systems . our portfolio of practice management offerings is designed to serve the full range of customers within the north american, australian and european markets. cornerstone, dvmax, animana and neo practice management systems provide superior integrated information solutions, backed by exceptional customer support and education. these practice management systems allow the veterinarian to practice better medicine and achieve the practice business objectives, including a quality client experience, staff efficiency and practice profitability. we market cornerstone, dvmax and neo to customers primarily in north america and australia. we market animana to customers primarily throughout europe. 39 animana and neo are subscription-based saas practice management offerings designed to provide flexible pricing and a durable, recurring revenue stream, while utilizing cloud technology instead of a client server platform. while we continue to develop, sell and support our licensed-based cornerstone and dvmax software, we are growing our installed base of subscription-based practice management offerings for new customers of idexx practice management systems. in time, we expect that demand for neo, our subscription-based saas practice management offering in north america, will moderate customer growth of license-based cornerstone placements. we also believe that once established, this subscription-based model will provide higher profitability as compared to the historical license-based placements. our cornerstone and dvmax customer base continues to be an important driver of growth through enhanced diagnostic integrations and high value add-on subscription services, such as pet health network pro, petly plans, and credit card processing, and we continue to make investments to enhance the customer experience of all of our license-based software offerings. we differentiate our practice management systems through enhanced functionality, ease of use and connectivity with in-clinic idexx vetlab instruments and outside reference laboratory test results. our client communication services create more meaningful pet owner experiences through personalized communication. pet health network pro online client communication and education service complements the entire idexx product offering by educating pet owners and building loyalty through engaging the pet owner before, during and after the visit, thereby building client loyalty and driving more patient visits. our diagnostic imaging systems offer a convenient radiographic solution that provides superior image quality and the ability to share images with clients virtually anywhere . idexx imaging software enables enhanced diagnostic features and streamlined integration with our other products and services. our newest digital radiography systems, t he imagevue dr50 digital imaging system enable low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality diagnostic images, reduc ing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. placements of imaging systems are important to the growth of revenue streams that are recurring in nature, including extended maintenance agreements and idexx web pacs, which is our cloud-based saas offering for viewing, accessing, storing and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. we derive relatively higher mar gins from our subscription-based product s. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. water our strategy in the water testing business is to develop, manufacture, market and sell proprietary products that test primarily for the presence of microbial contamination in water matrices, including drinking water supplies, with superior performance, supported by exceptional customer service. our customers primarily consist of water utilities, government laboratories and private certified laboratories that highly v alue strong relationships and customer support. we expect that future growth in this business will be significantly dependent on our ability to increase international sales. growth also will be dependent on our ability to enhance and broaden our product line. most water microbiological testing is driven by regulation, and, in many countries, a test may not be used for compliance testing unless it has been approved by the applicable regulatory body and integrated into customers testing protocols . as a result, we maintain an active regulatory program that involves applying for a growing number of regulatory approvals in a number of countries, primarily in europe. further, we seek to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies as a means to differentiate our products from the competition. 40 livestock, poultry and dairy we develop, manufacture, market and sell a broad range of tests and perform services for various livestock diseases and conditions, and have active research and development and in-licensing programs in this area. our strategy is to offer proprietary tests with superior performance characteristics for use in government programs to control or eradicate disease and disease outbreaks and in livestock and poultry producers disease and reproductive management programs. disease outbreaks are episodic and unpredictable, and certain diseases that are prevalent at one time may be substantially contained or eradicated at a later time. in response to outbreaks, testing initiatives may lead to exceptional demand for certain products in certain periods. conversely, successful eradication programs may result in significantly decreased demand for certain products. in addition, increases in government funding may lead to increased demand for certain products and budgetary constraints may lead to decreased demand for certain products. as result, the performance in certain sectors of this business can fluctuate. our strategy in the dairy testing business is to develop, manufacture and sell antibiotic residue and contaminant testing products that satisfy applicable regulatory requirements or dairy processor standards for testing of milk and provide reliable field performance. the manufacture of these testing products leverages the snap platform and production assets that also support our rapid assay business, which also leverages the snap platform. the dairy snap products, incorpor ate customized reagents for antibiotic and contaminant detection. to successfully increase sales of dairy testing products, we believe that we need to increase penet ration in dairy processor and develop product line enhancements and extensions . the performance of the business is particularly subject to the various risks that are associated with doing business internationally . see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other opti medical . our strategy in the opti medical business for the human market is to develop, manufacture, and sell electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumable products for the medical point-of-care diagnostics market worldwide, with a focus on small to mid-sized hospitals. w e seek to differentiate our products based on ease of use, convenience, international distribution and service and instrument reliability. similar to our veterinary instruments and consumables strategy, a substantial portion of the revenues from this product line is derived from the sale of consumables for use on the installed base of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. during the early stage of an instrument life cycle, relatively greater revenues are derived from instrument placements, while consumable sales become relatively more significant in later stages as the installed base of instruments increases and instrument placement revenues begin to decline. our long-term success in this area of our business is dependent upon new customer acquisition, customer retention and increased customer utilization of existing and new assays introduced on these instruments. our facility in roswell, georgia develops and manufactures the opti product lines using the same or similar technology to support the electrolyte needs of the veterinary market . we leverage t his facility know-how, intellectual property and manufacturing capability to continue to expand the menu and instrument capability of the vetstat and catalyst platforms for veterinary applications while reducing our cost of consumables by leveraging experience and economies of scale. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed the opti medical product offerings. as a result of this review, in march 2016 we discontinued certain development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market that were devoted to a new platform and focused our efforts on supporting our current generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. the performance of the business is particularly subject to the various risks that are associated with doing business internationally . see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 41 critical accounting policies and estimates the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ) . the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we evaluate our estimates o n an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates. note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of these consolidated financial statements. we believe the following critical accounting estimates and assumptions may have a material impact on reported financial condition and operating performance and involve significant levels of judgment to account for highly uncertain matters or are susceptible to significant change. revenue recognition we recognize revenue when four criteria are m et: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. see note 2(j ) to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our revenue recognition policy and criteria for recognizing revenue. multiple element arrangements ( meas ) . arrangements to sell products to customers frequently include multiple deliverables. our most significant meas include the sale of one or more of the instruments from the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers, diagnostic imaging systems or practice management software , combined with one or more of the following products: extended maintenance agreements ( emas ), consumables, rapid assay kits and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services. practice management software is frequently sold with post-contract customer support and implementation services. delivery of the various products or performance of services within the arrangement may or may not coincide. delivery of our idexx vetlab instruments, diagnostic imaging systems and practice management software generally occurs at the onset of the arrangement. emas, consumables, rapid assay kits and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services typically are delivered over future periods, generally one to six years. in certain arrangements, revenue recognized is limited to the amount invoiced or received that is not contingent on the delivery of products and services in the future. we allocate revenue to each element based on the relative selling price and recognize revenue when the elements have standalone value and the four criteria for revenue recognition, as discussed above, have been met for each element. if available, we establish the selling price of each element based on vendor-specific objective evidence ( vsoe ), which represents the price charged for a deliverable when it is sold separately. we use third-party evidence ( tpe ) if vsoe is not available, or best estimate of selling price if neither vsoe nor tpe is available. when these arrangements include a separately-priced ema, we recognize revenue related to the ema at the stated contractual price on a straight-line basis over the life of the agreement to the extent the separately stated price is substantive. if there is no stated contractual price for an ema, or the separately stated price is not substantive, we allocate revenue to each element based on the relative selling price and recognize revenue when the elements have standalone value and the four criteria for revenue recognition, as discussed above, have been met for each element . 42 when arrangements within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance include multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element based on relative fair value, when vsoe exists for all elements, or by using the residual method when there is vsoe for the undelivered elements but no such evidence for the delivered elements. under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the residual revenue is allocated to the delivered elements. revenue is recognized on any delivered elements when the four criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. if vsoe does not exist for the undelivered element, all revenue from the arrangement is deferred until the earlier of the point at which such sufficient vsoe does exist or all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. we determine fair value based on amounts charged separately for the delivered and undelivered elements to similar customers in standalone sales of the specific elements. certain arrangements with customers include discounts on future sales of products and services. we apply judgment in determining whether future discounts are significant and incremental. when the future discount offered is not considered significant and incremental, we do not account for the discount as an element of the original arrangement. if the future discount is significant and incremental, we recognize that discount as an element of the original arrangement and allocate the discount to the other elements of the arrangement based on relative selling price. to determine whether a discount is significant and incremental, we look to the discount provided in comparison to standalone sales of the same product or service to similar customers, the level of discount provided on other elements in the arrangement and the significance of the discount to the overall arrangement. if the discount in the mea approximates the discount typically provided in standalone sales, that discount is not considered incremental. customer programs . we record reductions to revenue related to customer marketing and incentive programs, which include end-user rebates and other volume-based incentives. incentives may be provided in the form of idexx points, credits or cash and are earned by end users upon achieving defined volume purchases or utilization levels or upon entering an agreement to purchase products or services in future periods. the summary of revenue reductions presented below reflects all revenue reductions recorded for the year for each particular program. these amounts are presented on a net basis when applicable, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned for the relevant customer marketing or incentive program. these differences have been insignificant in all quarterly or annual periods. our most significant customer programs are categorized as follows: customer loyalty programs . our customer loyalty programs offer customers the opportunity to earn incentives on a variety of idexx products and services as those products and services are purchased and utilized. revenue reductions related to customer loyalty programs are recorded based on the actual issuance of incentives, incentives earned but not yet issued and estimates of incentives to be earned in the future. up-front customer loyalty programs . our up-front loyalty programs provide incentives to customers in the form of cash payments or idexx points upon entering multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of future products or services. our transition to an all-direct sales model in the u.s. and the subsequent increase in competitive activity resulted in an increase in the rate of new up-front customer loyalty incentives, predominantly in response to competitive offerings during the fourth quarter of 2014 and in 2015. we saw a slowing in the rate of increase for new up-front customer loyalty incentives beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015 and continuing through 2016. if a customer breaches its agreement, it is required to refund all or a portion of the up-front cash or idexx points, or make other repayments, remedial actions or both. these incentives are considered to be customer acquisition costs and are capitalized within other current assets and other long-term assets and are subsequently recognized as a reduction to revenue over the term of the customer agreement. if these up-front incentives are subsequently utilized to purchase idexx vetlab instruments, diagnostic imaging systems or cornerstone practice management systems, product revenue and cost is deferred and recognized over the term of the customer agreement as products and services are provided to the customer. we monitor customer purchases over the term of their agreement to assess the realizability of our capitalized customer acquisition costs. for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, impairments of customer acquisition costs were immaterial. 43 idexx instrument marketing programs . our instrument marketing programs require the customer to enroll at the time of instrument purchase and offer customers the opportunity to earn incentives in future periods based on the volume of the products they purchase and utilize over the term of the program. these arrangements are considered meas in accordance with our revenue recognition policy stated above. revenue reductions related to instrument marketing programs are recorded based on an estimate of customer purchase and utilization levels and the incentive the customer will earn over the term of the program. our estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of the marketing program, requiring us to apply judgment to estimate future product purchases and utilization. differences between our estimates and actual incentives earned are accounted for as a change in estimate. these differences were not material for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. at december 31, 201 6 , a 5 percent change in our estimate of future customer utilization would increase or reduce revenue by approximately $0.4 million. reagent rental programs . our reagent rental programs provide our customers the right to use our instruments in consideration for multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of consumables. no instrument revenue is recognized at the time of instrument installation. we recognize a portion of the revenue allocated to the instrument concurrent with the future sale of consumables. we determine the amount of revenue allocated from the consumable to the instrument based on relative selling prices and determine the rate of instrument revenue recognition in proportion to the customer minimum volume commitment. the cost of the instrument is capitalized within property and equipment or deferred within other assets, and is charged to cost of product revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the minimum purchase agreement. idexx points may be applied against the purchase price of idexx products and services or applied to trade receivables due to us. idexx points that have not yet been used by customers are classified as a liability until use or expiration occurs. we estimate the amount of idexx points expected to expire, or breakage, based on historical expirations and we recognize the estimated benefit of breakage in proportion to actual redemptions of idexx points by customers. on november 30 of each year, unused idexx points earned before january 1 of the prior year generally expire and any variance from the breakage estimate is accounted for as a change in estimate. this variance was not material for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. future market conditions and changes in product offerings may cause us to change marketing strategies to increase or decrease customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in incremental reductions of revenue in future periods as compared to reductions in the current or prior periods. additionally, certain customer programs require us to estimate, based on historical experience, and apply judgment to predict the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. in determining estimated revenue reductions, we utilize data collected directly from end users, which includes the volume of qualifying products purchased and the number of qualifying tests run as reported to us by end users via idexx smartservice . differences between estimated and actual customer participation in programs may impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition. following is a summary of revenue reductions, net recorded in connection with our customer programs for the years ended december 31, 201 6 , 201 5 and 201 4 ( in thousands ): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 revenue reductions recorded, net customer loyalty programs, net (1) $ 18,226 $ 16,742 $ 14,800 up-front customer loyalty programs 24,595 19,972 13,089 idexx instrument marketing programs, net (1) 37,012 31,112 24,158 other customer programs, net (1) 417 664 2,796 total revenue reductions, net $ 80,250 $ 68,490 $ 54,843 (1) revenue reduction is provided on a net basis, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned. 44 accrued customer programs are included within accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities, depending on the anticipated settlement date, in the consolidated balance sheets included in this annual report on form 10-k. following is a summary of changes in the accrual for estimated revenue reductions attributable to customer programs and the ending accrued customer programs balance for t he years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 ( in thousands ): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 accrued customer programs: balance, beginning of the year $ 55,133 $ 48,153 $ 39,345 revenue reductions for customer loyalty programs, net (1) 18,227 16,742 14,800 up-front customer loyalty program awards issued as idexx points 31,407 40,689 20,315 reve nue reductions for idexx instrument marketing programs, net (1) 37,011 31,112 24,158 revenue reductions for other customer programs, net (1) 417 664 2,796 idexx points redeemed and credits issued (81,733 ) (81,172 ) (52,035 ) breakage (722 ) (230 ) (421 ) exchange impact on balances denominated in foreign currency (308 ) (825 ) (805 ) balance, end of year $ 59,432 $ 55,133 $ 48,153 (1) revenue reduction is provided on a net basis, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned. inventory valuation we write down the carrying value of inventory for estimated obsolescence by an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value when warranted based on assumptions of future demand, market conditions, remaining shelf life or product functionality. if actual market conditions or results of estimated functionality are less favorable than those we estimated, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which would have a negative effect on results of operations. valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets a significant portion of the purchase price for acquired businesses is generally assigned to intangible assets. intangible assets other than goodwill are initially valued at fair value. if a quoted price in an active market for the identical asset is not readily available at the measurement date, the fair value of the intangible asset is estimated based on discounted cash flows using market participant assumptions, which are assumptions that are not specific to idexx. the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies and the estimation of discounted cash flows require significant assumptions about the timing and amounts of future cash flows, risks, appropriate discount rates, and the useful lives of intangible assets. when material, we utilize independent valuation experts to advise and assist us in determining the fair values of the identified intangible assets acquired in connection with a business acquisition and in determining appropriate amortization methods and periods for those intangible assets. goodwill is initially valued based on the excess of the purchase price of a business combination over the fair value of acquired net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. we assess goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit level, in the fourth quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. an impairment charge is recorded for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. our reporting units are the individual product and service categories that comprise our cag operating segment, our water and lpd operating segments and goodwill remaining from the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business in the fourth quarter of 2008, referred to herein as the technology reporting unit. a substantial portion of the goodwill remaining from the pharmaceutical business, included in our other segment , is associated with products that have been, or that we expect to be, licensed to third parties. realization of this goodwill is dependent upon the success of those third parties in developing and commercializing products, which will result in our receipt of royalties and other payments. 45 in evaluating goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goo dwill impairment test. the more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we would then perform step one of the two-step impairment test; otherwise, no further impairment test would be required. in contrast, we can opt to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to step one of the two-step impairment test. doing so does not preclude us from performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. as part of our goodwill testing process, we evaluate factors specific to a reporting unit as well as industry and macroeconomic factors that are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the fair value of a reporting unit. examples of the factors considered in assessing the fair value of a reporting unit include: the results of the most recent impairment test, the competitive environment, the regulatory environment, anticipated changes in product or labor costs, revenue growth trends, the consistency of operating margins and cash flows and current and long-range financial forecasts. the long-range financial forecasts of the reporting units, which are based upon management long-term view of our markets, are used by senior management and the board of directors to evaluate operating performance. in the fourth quarters of 201 6 and 201 5 , we elected to bypass the qualitative approach and instead proceeded directly to step one of the two-step impairment test to assess the fair value of all of our reporting units. as part of step one of the two-step impairment test, we estimate the fair values of applicable reporting units using an income approach based on discounted forecasted cash flows. we make significant assumptions about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. model assumptions are based on our projections and best estimates, using appropriate and customary market participant assumptions. in addition, we make certain assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units in determining the carrying value of each reporting unit. as of our fourth quarter assessment, the total aggregate fair value of the reporting units approximated the company market capitalization. valuation assumptions reflect our projections and best estimates, based on significant assumptions about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. we maintain approximately $6.5 million of goodwill associated with our remaining pharmaceutical product line, out-licensing arrangements and certain retained drug delivery technologies (collectively pharmaceutical activities ) that we seek to commercialize through arrangements with third parties. currently, our primary support for the carrying value of this goodwill is royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property under licensing agreements that expire in 2025. there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues from our remaining pharmaceutical activities. the results of our goodwill impairment test for these pharmaceutical activities indicate an excess of estimated fair value over the carrying amount of this reporting unit by approximately $7.6 million and 117 percent of the reporting unit carrying value. excluding these pharmaceutical activities, the results of our goodwill impairment test indicate an excess of estimated fair value over the carrying amount for each of our reporting units by a range of approximately $ 8 0.0 million to $2.0 billion and 260 percent to 1220 percent of the reporting unit carrying value. while we believe that the assumptions used to determine the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units are reasonable, a change in assumptions underlying these estimates could result in a material negative effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting units. our fair value estimate assumes the achievement of future financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. we use forecasts to estimate future cash flows and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most recent views of the long-term outlooks for our reporting units. actual results may differ from those assumed in our forecasts. the discount rate is based on a weighted average cost of capital derived from industry peers. changes in market conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing or the discount rate would affect the estimated fair values of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. no goodwill impairments were identified during the years ended december 31, 201 6 , 201 5 or 201 4 . 46 a prolonged economic downturn in the u.s. or internationally resulting in lower long-term growth rates and reduced long-term profitability may reduce the fair value of our reporting units. industry specific events or circumstances could have a negative impact on our reporting units and may also reduce the fair value of our reporting units. should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not that a reporting unit fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will perform an interim goodwill impairment test, in addition to the annual impairment test. future impairment tests may result in an impairment of goodwill, depending on the outcome of future impairment tests. an impairment of goodwill would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings. we assess the realizability of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. if an impairment review is triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of intangible assets based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary asset of the asset group and compare that value to the carrying value of the asset group. the cash flows that are used contain our best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time. if the net carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment to write the intangible asset to its fair value would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings. if necessary, we would calculate the fair value of an intangible asset using the present value of the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the intangible asset and applying a risk-adjusted discount rate. during 2016, management reviewed the opti medical product offerings. as a result of this review, we discontinued our product development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market during and focused our commercial efforts in this market on supporting our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. management identified unfavorable trends in our opti medical line of business resulting from this change in strategy. non-cash intangible asset impairments of $2.2 million were recorded within our condensed consolidated statement of operations within general and administration expenses during 2016. the intangibles associated with our opti medical human point-of-care medical diagnostics market are fully written off. i ntangible assets impairments during th e years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , were not material. our business combinations regularly include contingent consideration arrangements that require additional consideration to be paid based on the achievement of established objectives, most commonly surrounding the retention of customers during the post-combination period. we assess contingent consideration to determine if it is part of the business combination or if it should be accounted for separately from the business combination in the post-combination period. contingent consideration is recognized at its fair value on the acquisition date. a liability resulting from contingent consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date until the contingency is resolved, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. changes in fair value of contingent consideration and differences arising upon settlement were not material during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding contingent consideration arising from business acquisitions. share-based compensation our share-based compensation programs provide for grants of stock options, restricted stock units and deferred stock units, along with the issuance of employee stock purchase rights. the total fair value of future awards may vary significantly from past awards based on a number of factors, including our share-based award practices. therefore, share-based compensation expense is likely to fluctuate, possibly significantly, from year to year. 47 we use the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to determine the fair value of options granted. option-pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, particularly for the expected stock price volatility and the expected term of options. the risk-free interest rate is based on the u.s. treasury yield for a duration similar to the expected term at the date of grant. we have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we have no intention to pay a dividend at this time; therefore, we assume that no dividends will be paid over the expected terms of option awards. we determine the assumptions to be used in the valuation of option grants as of the date of grant. as such, we use different assumptions during the year if we grant options at different dates. substantially all of our options granted during t he years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were granted in the first quarter of each year. the weighted average of each of the valuation assumptions used to determine the fair value of each option grant during each of the previous three years is as follows: for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 expected stock price volatility 25 % 23 % 28 % expected term, in years (1) 5.7 5.6 5.7 risk-free interest rate 1.2 % 1.5 % 1.5 % (1) o ptions granted have a contractual term of ten years. changes in the subjective input assumptions, particularly for the expected stock price volatility and the expected term of options, can materially affect the fair value estimate. our expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of our stock over a period similar to the expected term and other relevant factors. higher estimated volatility increases the fair value of a stock option, while lower estimated volatility has the opposite effect. the total fair value of stock options granted during the year ended december 31, 201 6, was $13.3 million. if the weighted average of the stock price volatility assumption was increased or decreased by 1 percent , the total fair value of stock options awarded during the year ended december 31, 201 6, would have increased or decreased by approximately $0.4 million and the total expense recognized for the year ended december 31, 201 6, for options awarded during the same period would have increased or decreased by less than $0.1 million. we derive the expected term assumption for stock options based on historical experience and other relevant factors concerning expected behavior with regard to option exercises. the expected term is determined using a consistent method at each grant date. a longer expected term assumption increases the fair value of stock option awards, while a shorter expected term assumption has the opposite effect. if the weighted average of the expected term was increased or decreased by one year, the total fair value of stock options awarded during the year ended december 31, 201 6, would have increased or decreased by approximately $ 1.2 million , and the total expense recognized for the year ended december 31, 201 6, for options awarded during 201 6 would have incre ased or decreased by approximately $0.2 million . share-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which ranges from one to five years, depending on the award. share-based compensation expense is based on the number of awards expected to vest and is, therefore, reduced for an estimate of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. the forfeiture estimates are based on historical data and other factors; share-based compensation expense is adjusted annually for actual results. total share-based compensation expense for the year ended december 31, 201 6, was $ 19.9 million, which is net of a reduction of $ 3.0 million for actual and estimated forfeitures. fluctuations in our overall employee turnover rate may result in changes in estimated forfeiture rates and differences between estimated forfeiture rates and actual experience and, therefore could have a significant unanticipated impact on share-based compensation expense. modifications of the terms of outstanding awards may result in significant increases or decreases in share-based compensation. there were no material modifications to the terms of outstanding options, restricted stock units or deferred stock units during 201 6 , 201 5 or 201 4 . the fair value of stock options, restricted stock units, deferred stock units and employee stock purchase rights issued totaled $27.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , $2 5.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, and $ 24.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . the total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, for unvested share-based compensation awards outstanding at december 31, 201 6, was $38.0 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.6 years. 48 income taxes the provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. under this approach, deferred taxes represent the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between book and tax treatment of assets and liabilities and carryforwards to the extent they are realizable. on a quarterly basis, we assess our current and projected earnings by jurisdiction to determine whether or not our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future tax benefits. should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in a particular jurisdiction in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. a reduction of net income before taxes in each subsidiary equal to 5 percent of revenue, compared to the corresponding reported amounts for the year ended december 31, 2016, would not result in the recognition of material incremental valuation allowances. for those jurisdictions where tax carryforwards are likely to expire unused or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not more likely than not, a valuation allowance is recorded to offset the deferred tax asset within that jurisdiction. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. alternatively, in the event that we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, a reduction of the valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, a reduction to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made . our net taxable temporary differences and tax carryforwards are recorded using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or realized. should the expected applicable tax rates change in the future, an adjustment to the net deferred tax liability would be credited or charged, as appropriate, to income in the period such determination was made. for example, an increase of one percentage point in our anticipated u.s. state income tax rate would cause us to decrease our net deferred tax liability balance by $0. 3 million. this decrease in the net deferred liability would increase net income in the period that our rate was adjusted. likewise, a decrease of one percentage point to our anticipated u.s. state income tax rate would have the opposite effect. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. we consider the majority of the operating earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the u.s. at december 31, 2016, t he cumulative earnings of these subsidiaries were $ 546.7 million , of which approximately $ 387.0 million was held in cash and cash equivalents. no provision has been made for the payment of u.s. federal and state or international taxes that may result from future remittances of these undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. should we repatriate these earnings in the future, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings is made. a determination of the related tax liability that would be paid on these undistributed earnings if repatriated is not practicable for several reasons including the complexity of laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we operate, the varying tax treatment of potential repatriation scenarios and the timing of any future repatriation. for the operating earnings not considered to be indefinitely invested outside the u.s. we have accounted for the tax impact on a current basis. 49 we record a liability for uncertain tax positions that do not meet the more likely than not standard as prescribed by the authoritative guidance for income tax accounting. we record tax benefits for only those positions that we believe will more likely than not be sustained. for positions that we believe that it is more likely than not that we will prevail, we record a benefit considering the amounts and probabilities that could be realized upon ultimate settlement. if our judgment as to the likely resolution of the uncertainty changes, if the uncertainty is ultimately settled or if the statute of limitation related to the uncertainty expires, the effects of the change would be recognized in the period in which the change, resolution or expiration occurs. our net liability for uncertain tax positions was $18.8 million as of december 31, 2016, and $7.4 million as of december 31, 2015, which includes estimated interest expense and penalties. the increase in net liability is primarily related to two uncertain tax positions taken during the year. the first relates to our claiming certain tax deductions under a recent court case, but one that the irs has vowed to appeal. the second relates to certain changes we made in our transfer pricing policies to better align statutory accounting with business operations. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. future changes in tax law could impact our provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable, and our u.s. deferred tax liability balances. any enacted legislation to reduce the u.s. corporate tax rate would reduce our income tax expense and payments in subsequent periods, but could also have a one-time impact in the period of enactment. potential one-time impacts could include adjustments to our net u.s. deferred tax liability and increased tax expense resulting from the taxation of operating earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries that have been indefinitely invested outside the u.s. and for which we have not recorded a u.s. tax liability. results of operations and trends effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories . when selling our products through distributors, changes in distributors inventory levels can impact our reported sales, and these changes may be affected by many factors, which may not be directly related to underlying demand for our products by veterinary practices, which are the end users. therefore, we believe it is important to track sales to end users in the relevant periods by our significant distributors in order to distinguish between the impact of end-user demand and the impact of distributor purchasing dynamics on our reported revenue in those periods. effective january 1, 2015, we fully transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s., however changes in prior year u.s. distributors inventory levels impacted 2015 reported growth results. in certain countries internationally, we continue to sell our products through third party distributors. although we are unable to obtain data for sales to end users from certain less significant non-u.s. third party distributors, we do not believe the impact of changes in these distributors inventories had or would have a material impact on our growth rates in the relevant periods. following our transition to an all direct u.s. distribution approach, we anticipate that changes in distributor inventory levels will have an immaterial impact on our growth in future years. where growth rates are affected by changes in end-user demand, we refer to this as the impact of practice-level sales on growth. where growth rates are affected by distributor purchasing dynamics, we refer to this as the impact of changes in distributors inventories on growth. if during the current year, distributors inventories grew by less than those inventories grew in the comparable period of the prior year, then changes in distributors inventories would have an unfavorable impact on our reported sales growth in the current period. conversely, if during the current year, distributors inventories grew by more than those inventories grew in the comparable period of the prior year, then changes in distributors inventories would have a favorable impact on our reported sales growth in the current period. effective january 1, 2015, we fully transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. and did not renew our existing contracts with our former key u.s. distribution partners after their expiration at the end of 2014. under this approach, we take orders, ship product, invoice and receive payment for all rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables in the u.s., aligning with our direct model for instruments, reference laboratory services, and other cag products and services. 50 we incurred transition costs to implement this all-direct sales strategy in the u.s., including approximately $5 million in incremental expense during the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting from the ramp up of sales and operating resources. we also incurred $9.5 million in non-recurring expenses during the year ended december 31, 2014, associated with project management and other one-time costs required to implement this new strategy. further, we incurred one-time transitional impacts related to the drawdown of distributor inventory in the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a reduction in revenue and operating profit of $25 million and $21 million, respectively, in such period. during the three months ended december 31, 2014, we began recognizing revenue on rapid assay kits and vetlab consumables upon delivery to end users in the u.s., instead of at distribution. we also began to capture additional revenue that was previously earned by our distribution partners, net of other changes related to this all-direct strategy, such as free next-day shipping and a new returns policy for expired product. we refer to this net additional revenue as distributor margin capture. this net incremental revenue allowed us to expand our sales, marketing and customer support resources, which we expect will drive future revenue growth, and to build out our distribution capability. we expect investments in these areas will scale over time based on our expected future growth rates and provide accretive benefits to operating profit. also as a result of the transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s., we incurred additional working capital demands, including inventory costs previously borne by our distributors, and incremental accounts receivable resulting from a longer elapsed time to collect our receivables. currency impact . for the year ended december 31, 201 6 , approximately 21 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 2 0 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015, and 2 2 percent f or the year ended december 31, 201 4 . strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies has a negative impact on our revenues derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and on profits of products manufactured or purchased in u.s. dollars and sold internationally, and a weakening of the u.s. dollar has the opposite effect. similarly, to the extent that the u.s. dollar is stronger in current or future periods relative to the exchange rates in effect in the corresponding prior periods, our growth rate will be negatively affected. the impact of foreign currency denominated operating expenses and foreign currency denominated supply contracts partly offsets this exposure. additionally, our designated hedges of intercompany inventory purchases and sales help delay the impact of certain exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. denominated revenues. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our future income tax expense could also be affected by changes in the mix of earnings, including as a result of changes in the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to currencies in countries with differing statutory tax rates. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding tax impacts. the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates is not a measure defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ), otherwise referred to herein as a non-gaap financial measure. as exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results normalized for changes in currency in addition to reported results helps improve investors ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. w e calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable previous year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. effects of economic conditions . demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, including slow economic growth, high unemployment and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, diagnostic imaging and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. in the u.s., we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although this data is a limited sample and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, which may affect the number of patient visits in a given period, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. 51 economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. water testing volumes may be susceptible to declines in discretionary testing for existing home and commercial sales and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. testing volumes may also be impacted by severe weather conditions such as drought. in addition, fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and herd health screening services. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the potential effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. effects of patent expiration . although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2016 and are expected to expire during 2017, the expiration of these patents or licenses , individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or future operations due to a range of factors as described in item 1. patents and licenses . twelve months ended december 31, 201 6, compared to twelv e months ended december 31, 2015 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the twelve months ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. 52 total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international markets : for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,522,689 $ 1,356,287 $ 166,402 12.3% (0.6%) 0.3% 12.6% united states 1,017,065 912,822 104,243 11.4% - 0.2% 11.2% international 505,624 443,465 62,159 14.0% (2.0%) 0.5% 15.5% water 103,579 96,884 6,695 6.9% (1.8%) - 8.7% united states 52,852 48,677 4,175 8.6% - - 8.6% international 50,727 48,207 2,520 5.2% (3.7%) - 8.9% lpd 126,491 127,143 (652) (0.5%) (1.6%) - 1.1% united states 13,253 14,041 (788) (5.6%) - - (5.6%) international 113,238 113,102 136 0.1% (1.8%) - 1.9% other 22,664 21,578 1,086 5.0% (0.1%) - 5.1% total company $ 1,775,423 $ 1,601,892 $ 173,531 10.8% (0.8%) 0.2% 11.4% united states 1,089,595 980,321 109,274 11.1% 0.1% 0.2% 10.8% international 685,828 621,571 64,257 10.3% (2.1%) 0.4% 12.0% u.s. and international organic revenue growth both reflect very strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies that are driving increased volumes from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business, and continued strong growth in cag diagnostics capital instrument placements that are driving idexx vetlab consumable volume growth. international organic growth across europe, asia pacific and latin america outpaced u.s. growth, reflecting the aforementioned cag diagnostics recurring volume driven growth, continued growth of colilert testing products in our water business and lpd emerging market growth , offset by d eclines in lpd bovine disease eradication t esting in europe . to a lesser extent, u.s. and international lpd organic growth also reflects pressure on our dairy testing business due to a decline in worldwide milk prices. companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,281,262 $ 1,147,026 $ 134,236 11.7% (0.7%) 0.4% 12.0% idexx vetlab consumables 451,456 396,526 54,930 13.9% (0.8%) - 14.7% rapid assay products 189,122 182,670 6,452 3.5% - - 3.5% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 581,067 512,155 68,912 13.5% (0.9%) 0.8% 13.6% cag diagnostics service and accessories 59,617 55,675 3,942 7.1% (0.3%) - 7.4% cag diagnostics capital - instruments 121,191 98,502 22,689 23.0% (0.7%) - 23.7% veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 120,236 110,759 9,477 8.6% (0.2%) - 8.8% net cag revenue $ 1,522,689 $ 1,356,287 $ 166,402 12.3% (0.6%) 0.3% 12.6% 53 the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to higher sales of our idexx vetlab consumables and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services resulting from increased volumes and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. idexx vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher sales volumes in the u.s., europe and the asia-pacific region from our catalyst consumables and, to a lesser extent, procyte dx consumables, resulting from growth in testing by existing customers, the acquisition of new customers and an expanded menu of available tests. these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower consumables volumes from our vettest chemistry instrument due to customer upgrades from our previous generation vettest to our catalyst analyzers. idexx vetlab consumables revenue also benefited from higher average unit sales prices. the increase in rapid assay revenue resulted from higher average unit price and sales volumes of snap 4dx and higher sales volumes of single analyte snap products. these favorable factors were partly offset by the unfavorable impact of lower average unit sales prices in the u.s. for certain earlier generation rapid assay products. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from existing customers and the net acquisition of new customers, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, such as idexx sdma. also, revenue increased, to a lesser extent, from higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. testing volumes benefited slightly from favorable weather trends experienced during the first quarter of 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year . cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. the increase in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue resulted from our newly launched sedivue dx analyzer, which contributed approximately 23 percent to reported and organic instrument revenue growth, and higher procyte dx revenues, partly offset by lower catalyst revenues resulting from a shift in placements from our catalyst dx analyzer to our lower priced catalyst one analyzer and the prior year benefit of recognizing previously deferred revenues associated with pre-orders of our catalyst one analyzer in the u.s. in 2014. the increase in veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was due primarily to increasing diagnostic imaging systems revenue, higher veterinary subscription service revenue, including increases in our pet health network pro subscriber base and higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our active installed base of diagnostic imaging and practice management systems. revenues from diagnostic imaging systems were higher due to the timing of revenue recognized from fewer deferred revenue placements under up-front customer loyalty programs, as compared to the same period in the prior year, and the recognition of previously deferred revenues. these favorable factors were partially offset by fewer licensed-based cornerstone placements as we evolve to a subscription-based model for new practice management customer acquisitions, as well as lower average unit sale prices on diagnostic imaging system placements. water. the increase in water revenue, as compared to the same period in the prior year, was attributable to all regions in which we operate, most notably from strong performance in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. higher revenues resulted primarily from increased sales volumes and price increases of our colilert test products and related accessories used in coliform and e. coli testing, placements of our quanti-tray sealer plus instrument, which we launched in june 2015, several large project orders during the first half of 2016, and to a lesser extent, from higher sales volumes of our products designed to detect cryptosporidium related to an outbreak in the united kingdom beginning in mid-2015 through the first half of 2016. testing volumes also benefited slightly from favorable weather trends experienced during the first quarter of 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. the increase in lpd organic revenue resulted from strong performance in emerging markets, most notably resulting from higher sales volumes of swine, poultry and bovine pregnancy products and services in various regions. this increase was partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes of bovine testing products within western europe in large part due to the success of certain disease eradication programs in the region, as well as pressure on our dairy testing business due to a decline in worldwide milk prices . 54 other. the increase in other revenue was due primarily to royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, partially offset by lower sales volumes of our opti medical blood gas analyzers and related consumables. gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change cag $ 820,322 53.9% $ 729,303 53.8% $ 91,019 12.5% water 71,878 69.4% 68,953 71.2% 2,925 4.2% lpd 73,801 58.3% 79,987 62.9% (6,186) (7.7%) other 11,561 51.0% 10,281 47.6% 1,280 12.5% unallocated amounts (2,126) n/a 1,746 n/a (3,872) 221.8% total company $ 975,436 54.9% $ 890,270 55.6% $ 85,166 9.6% gross profit increased due to higher sales volumes, partly offset by a 70 basis point reduction in the gross profit percentage during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year. excluding currency impacts of approximately 118 basis points, gross margins increased moderately, supported by improvements in our cag business. companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales volumes, along with a 10 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the prior year. the unfavorable impact of currency during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year, reduced the gross profit percentage by approximately 90 basis points, resulting primarily from lower hedging gains. excluding currency impacts, gross margins increased moderately, supported by the net benefit of price increases for our reference laboratory diagnostic services and idexx vetlab consumables and profitability improvements from higher relative revenue of our expanded subscription service offerings, and within our worldwide network of reference laboratories. water. gross profit for water increased due to higher sales volumes, offset by a 180 basis point reduction in the gross profit percentage. the unfavorable impact of currency during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the prior year, reduced the gross profit percentage by approximately 210 basis points, resulting from lower hedging gains and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding currency impacts, the gross profit percentage increased slightly due to the net benefit of price increases on our colilert testing products and related accessories. livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd decreased due to a reduction in the gross profit percentage of 460 basis points for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year. the decrease in the gross profit percentage resulted primarily from approximately 360 basis points of unfavorable currency impact, primarily due to lower relative hedging gains during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year. additionally, higher overall manufacturing costs, which were partially offset by the expiration of royalties on certain of our swine testing products , resulted in an overall lower gross profit, as compared to the same period in the prior year. other. gross profit for other increased due to higher sales and an increase in the gross profit percentage of 340 basis points for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the prior year. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted primarily from higher relative royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, partly offset by an increase in overall opti medical product costs. 55 unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts decreased due primarily to higher personnel-related costs. we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate the budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from the actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the increase in personnel-related costs was due primarily to higher self-insured healthcare costs and higher than budgeted employee incentives reported within unallocated amounts during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of the prior year. operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change cag $ 518,980 34.1% $ 495,984 36.6% $ 22,996 4.6% water 26,176 25.3% 24,201 25.0% 1,975 8.2% lpd 54,887 43.4% 52,830 41.6% 2,057 3.9% other 10,677 47.1% 10,418 48.3% 259 2.5% unallocated amounts 14,477 n/a 6,925 n/a 7,552 109.1% total company $ 625,197 35.2% $ 590,358 36.9% $ 34,839 5.9% for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change cag $ 301,342 19.8% $ 233,319 17.2% $ 68,023 29.2% water 45,702 44.1% 44,752 46.2% 950 2.1% lpd 18,914 15.0% 27,157 21.4% (8,243) (30.4%) other 884 3.9% (137) (0.6%) 1,021 (745.3%) unallocated amounts (16,603) n/a (5,179) n/a (11,424) (220.6%) total company $ 350,239 19.7% $ 299,912 18.7% $ 50,327 16.8% during the year ended december 31, 2015, w e recorded an $8.2 million impairment charge related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service within unallocated amounts as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our i nformation management business. for the year ended december 31, 2015, adjusted operating income, which is total company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned software impairment charge was approximately $308.1 million and 19.2 percent of revenue . adjusted operating income increased by $42.1 million or 13.7 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the prior year. adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 277,377 18.2% $ 263,907 19.5% $ 13,470 5.1% general and administrative 168,637 11.1% 159,851 11.8% 8,786 5.5% research and development 72,966 4.8% 72,226 5.3% 740 1.0% total operating expenses $ 518,980 34.1% $ 495,984 36.6% $ 22,996 4.6% 56 the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, including investments in our global commercial infrastructure and sales performance incentives, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from information technology investments, including ongoing depreciation and maintenance associated with prior year projects, and higher personnel-related costs. these increases were partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. research and development expense for the year ended december 31, 2016, was generally consistent with the same period of the prior year. water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 13,201 12.7% $ 12,204 12.6% $ 997 8.2% general and administrative 10,426 10.1% 9,058 9.3% 1,368 15.1% research and development 2,549 2.5% 2,939 3.0% (390) (13.3%) total operating expenses $ 26,176 25.3% $ 24,201 25.0% $ 1,975 8.2% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and increased advertising and marketing materials. the increase in general and administrative expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs. the decrease in research and development expense was a result of lower product development costs during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the prior year. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 22,723 18.0% $ 22,307 17.5% $ 416 1.9% general and administrative 20,193 16.0% 18,655 14.7% 1,538 8.2% research and development 11,971 9.5% 11,868 9.3% 103 0.9% total operating expenses $ 54,887 43.4% $ 52,830 41.6% $ 2,057 3.9% the increase in sales and marketing expense for the year ended december 31, 2016, was due to higher commercial infrastructure investments within emerging markets. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher investments in emerging markets including brazil. the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher external product development and material costs. all the increases above were partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. other. operating expenses for other, which totaled $10.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, increased $0.3 million, as compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to intangible impairments within our opti medical business, partly offset by lower amortization expense on the aforementioned intangible assets and a reduction in personnel-related costs. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed the opti medical product offerings. as a result of this review, we discontinued our product development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market during march 2016 and focused our commercial efforts in this market on supporting our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. management identified unfavorable trends in our opti medical line of business resulting from this change in strategy. we revised our forecasts downward, causing us to assess the realizability of the related tangible and intangible assets and determined the expected future cash flows were less than the carrying value of the opti medical asset group. non-cash intangible asset impairments of $2.2 million were recorded during the year ended december 31, 2016. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments increased $7.6 million to $14.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, due primarily to higher personnel-related costs as compared to budget, reflecting increased employee incentives and higher self-insured health claim expenses, as well as certain foreign exchange losses on monetary assets due to strengthening of the u.s. dollar. this compares to prior 57 period cost control initiatives that resulted in lower than budgeted costs. we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. partially offsetting these increases was the aforementioned $8.2 million impairment charge recorded in 2015, related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our veterinary software and services business. interest income and interest expense interest income was $3.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $2.5 million for the same period in the prior year. the increase in interest income was due primarily to a larger relative portfolio of marketable securities during the year ended december 31, 2016, and, to a lesser extent, higher interest rates, as compared to the same period of the prior year. interest expense was $32.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $29.2 million for the same period of the prior year. the increase in interest expense resulted from higher relative interest incurred in 2016 as a result of approximately $250 million in senior notes that we issued and sold through private placements during the first half of 2015, for which fixed interest rates range from 1.785 percent to 3.72 percent. additionally, the increase in interest expense was due to higher relative interest rates on our credit facility. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes and credit facility. provision for income taxes our effective income tax rate was 31.0 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to 29.7 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2015, was primarily related to a change in earnings mix in 2016, with relatively higher earnings subject to domestic tax rates as opposed to lower international tax rates including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. twelve months ended december 31, 201 5, compared to twelve months ended december 31, 201 4 revenue the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we exclude the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. the percentage changes in revenue from foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions are non-gaap financial measures. see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations currency impact for a description of the calculation of the percentage change in revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the percentage change in revenue resulting from acquisitions represents incremental revenues attributable to acquisitions that have occurred since the beginning of the prior year period. 58 total company. the following table presents revenue by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 change change currency acquisitions growth cag $ 1,356,287 $ 1,223,064 $ 133,223 10.9% (5.6%) 0.8% 15.7% united states 912,822 782,032 130,790 16.7% - 0.2% 16.5% international 443,465 441,032 2,433 0.6% (15.4%) 1.8% 14.2% water 96,884 94,725 2,159 2.3% (5.5%) - 7.8% united states 48,677 45,551 3,126 6.9% - - 6.9% international 48,207 49,174 (967) (2.0%) (10.8%) - 8.8% lpd 127,143 141,179 (14,036) (9.9%) (12.0%) - 2.1% united states 14,041 13,291 750 5.6% - - 5.6% international 113,102 127,888 (14,786) (11.6%) (13.3%) - 1.7% other 21,578 26,839 (5,261) (19.6%) (0.8%) - (18.8%) total company $ 1,601,892 $ 1,485,807 $ 116,085 7.8% (6.2%) 0.6% 13.4% united states 980,321 848,925 131,396 15.5% - 0.3% 15.2% international 621,571 636,882 (15,311) (2.4%) (14.1%) 1.2% 10.5% we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. during the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a drawdown of distributors inventory levels which reduced both reported cag and total company reported revenues by $25 million. the impact of the 2014 changes in distributors inventory levels increased 2015 reported cag revenue growth by 2 percent, reported cag u.s. revenue growth by 3 percent, total company revenue growth by 2 percent and total u.s. revenue growth by 3 percent. u.s. and international organic revenue growth both reflect strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported volume gains from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business and continued growth in cag diagnostics capital instrument placements that are driving idexx vetlab consumable volume growth . international organic growth in europe and asia pacific markets and , to a lesser extent , latin america, reflects the aforementioned cag diagnostics recurring volume driven growth, continued growth of colilert testing products in our water business and lpd growth in bovine, poultry and swine testing, offset by declines in lpd herd health screening in the asia-pacific region. changes in distributors inventory levels increased reported international revenue growth by less than 1 percent. companion animal group. the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2015 2014 change change currency acquisitions growth cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,147,026 $ 1,039,252 $ 107,774 10.4% (5.8%) 0.6% 15.6% idexx vetlab consumables 396,526 341,407 55,119 16.1% (7.1%) - 23.2% rapid assay products 182,670 165,647 17,023 10.3% (3.0%) - 13.3% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 512,155 479,192 32,963 6.9% (5.8%) 1.3% 11.4% cag diagnostics service and accessories 55,675 53,006 2,669 5.0% (5.9%) - 10.9% cag diagnostics capital instruments 98,502 79,993 18,509 23.1% (10.4%) - 33.5% veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 110,759 103,819 6,940 6.7% (0.9%) 2.6% 5.0% net cag revenue $ 1,356,287 $ 1,223,064 $ 133,223 10.9% (5.6%) 0.8% 15.7% 59 the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to higher sales of our vetlab consumables and our reference laboratory diagnostic services resulting from both increased volumes as well as higher realized prices from distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the impact of the 2014 drawdown of distributors inventory levels increased reported cag diagnostics recurring revenue growth by 3 percent. idexx vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher sales volumes resulting from growth in testing from existing customers and an expanded menu of available tests, including our new t 4 test. additionally, we benefitted from higher average unit sales prices, due primarily to distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the impact of the 2014 drawdown of distributors inventory levels increased reported consumables revenue growth by 5 percent. the increase in rapid assay revenue was due primarily to impacts related to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s., including higher average unit sales prices resulting from distributor margin capture and the impact of the drawdown of inventory held by distributors during the fourth quarter of 2014, which increased 2015 reported revenue growth by 8 percent. to a lesser extent, we also benefitted from higher canine snap 4dx plus sales volumes. these favorable factors were partly offset by the impact of competitive losses on certain earlier generation rapid assay products in the u.s in the first half of 2015. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from existing customers and the net acquisition of new customers. additionally, the increase in revenue was the result of higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. cag diagnostics service and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. cag diagnostics service and accessories revenue also benefited from higher average unit sales prices, resulting primarily from distributor margin capture relating to our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. the increase in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue was driven by sales of our catalyst one analyzer, resulting primarily from instrument placements in europe and the asia-pacific region and the recognition of previously deferred revenue associated with 2014 u.s. preorders for our catalyst one analyzer. additionally, we benefitted from increased procyte dx instrument placements, most notably in the u.s. these favorable factors were partly offset by lower average unit sales prices realized on our instrument placements. the increase in veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was due primarily to higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our active installed base of diagnostic imaging and practice management systems, and higher revenues from other customer information management services and an increasing pet health network pro subscriber base. these favorable factors were partly offset by fewer cornerstone placements and the unfavorable impact of increased diagnostic imaging system placements under up-front customer loyalty programs for which the consideration and related revenue is deferred and recognized over future periods, which resulted in an overall decrease in diagnostic imaging system sales. during the third quarter of 2015, we launched idexx neo practice management software, a saas practice management system in north america. under this delivery model, we provide hosted software in the cloud on a subscription basis. water. the increase in water revenue was distributed across all major regions and resulted primarily from higher sales volumes of our colilert and related accessories used in our coliform and e. coli testing, placements of our quanti-tray sealer plus instrument, which we launched in june 2015, and increased sales of our products designed to detect cryptosporidium. livestock, poultry and dairy. the increase in lpd organic revenue resulted primarily from higher sales volumes of certain bovine tests, poultry and swine tests, most prominently in the asia-pacific region and europe and, to a lesser degree, in the u.s. and latin america. these favorable factors were partly offset by a reduction in herd health screening in the asia-pacific region. 60 other. the decrease in other revenue was due primarily to lower sales volumes of our pharmaceutical product line, lower sales volumes of our opti medical blood gas analyzers, most prominently in the asia-pacific region, and lower average unit sales prices on related opti medical consumables. gross profit total company. the following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentages by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended gross profit december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 729,303 53.8% $ 652,195 53.3% $ 77,108 11.8% water 68,953 71.2% 62,576 66.1% 6,377 10.2% lpd 79,987 62.9% 85,058 60.2% (5,071) (6.0%) other 10,281 47.6% 14,414 53.7% (4,133) (28.7%) unallocated amounts 1,746 n/a 1,873 n/a (127) (6.8%) total company $ 890,270 55.6% $ 816,116 54.9% $ 74,154 9.1% gross profit increased due to higher sales volumes, due in part to the 2014 drawdown of distributors inventory levels, and an increase in the gross profit percentage to 56 percent from 55 percent. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from the net benefit of higher cag average unit prices, primarily resulting from distributor margin capture, net of related freight and distribution expenses relating to our transition within the u.s. to an all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables, and the positive net effect of currency. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to 2014, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . these overall favorable factors were partly offset by an unfavorable product mix, resulting primarily from higher relative instrument revenues which yield lower relative margins during 2015 as compared to 2014. companion animal group. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales volumes, due in part to the 2014 drawdown of distributors inventory levels. the gross profit percentage of 54 percent was 50 basis points higher than 2014 due to the net benefit of higher average unit prices, primarily resulting from distributor margin capture, net of related freight and distribution expenses relating to our transition within the u.s. to an all-direct sales strategy for our rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables and the positive net effect of currency of approximately 20 basis points. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to 2014, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable product mix, resulting primarily from higher relative instrument revenues which yield lower relative margins. water. gross profit for water increased due primarily to an increase in the gross profit percentage from 66 percent to 71 percent and higher sales volumes. the gross profit percentage was favorably impacted by approximately 120 basis points of foreign currency exchanges during the year ended december 31, 2015. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to 2014, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . additionally, the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted from the expiration of certain royalties on december 31, 2014. these overall favorable factors were partly offset by a less favorable product mix, due primarily to higher relative instrument and accessories sales which yield lower relative margins. livestock, poultry and dairy. gross profit for lpd decreased due to lower sales volumes and a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 63 percent to 60 percent. the gross profit percentage was favorably impacted by approximately 20 basis points of foreign currency exchanges during the year ended december 31, 2015. the positive net effect of currency resulted from higher relative hedging gains during 2015 as compared to 2014, which more than offset the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates . the decrease in the gross profit percentage reflects lower volume efficiencies resulting from a decrease in our asia-pacific region livestock testing services revenue and current year unfavorability from the absence of the one-time decrease in royalty expense which occurred during the first quarter of 2014, resulting from a settlement with a licensor of certain patents. 61 other. gross profit for other decreased due to lower sales and a decrease in the gross profit percentage from 54 percent to 48 percent. the decrease in the gross profit percentage was due primarily to our opti medical business, including lower average unit sales prices on consumables used by our blood gas analyzers and, to a lesser extent, higher overall manufacturing costs and the unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, the other gross profit percentage declined due to an unfavorable product mix resulting from lower relative sales of our pharmaceutical product line. unallocated amounts. gross profit for unallocated amounts related to budget-to-actual differences was consistent with the prior period. we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate the budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from the actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. operating expenses and operating income total company. the following tables present operating expenses and operating income by operating segment: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 495,984 36.6% $ 451,661 36.9% $ 44,323 9.8% water 24,201 25.0% 23,662 25.0% 539 2.3% lpd 52,830 41.6% 55,731 39.5% (2,901) (5.2%) other 10,418 48.3% 11,757 43.8% (1,339) (11.4%) unallocated amounts 6,925 n/a 13,050 n/a (6,125) (46.9%) total company $ 590,358 36.9% $ 555,861 37.4% $ 34,497 6.2% for the year for the year ended ended operating income december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change cag $ 233,319 17.2% $ 200,534 16.4% $ 32,785 16.3% water 44,752 46.2% 38,914 41.1% 5,838 15.0% lpd 27,157 21.4% 29,327 20.8% (2,170) (7.4%) other (137) (0.6%) 2,657 9.9% (2,794) (105.2%) unallocated amounts (5,179) n/a (11,177) n/a 5,998 53.7% total company $ 299,912 18.7% $ 260,255 17.5% $ 39,657 15.2% during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recorded an $8.2 million impairment charge related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service within unallocated amounts as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our information management business. during the year ended december 31, 2014, the transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. within our cag segment reduced operating profit by $35.3 million. our all-direct transition impacts consisted of a one-time reduction in operating profit related to the drawdown of inventory held by our u.s. distributors, which reduced operating income by $20.8 million, $5.0 million in incremental expenses related to the ramp up of sales and operating resources and approximately $9.5 million of non-recurring expenses during the year ended december 31, 2014. for the year ended december 31, 2015, adjusted operating income, which is total company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned software impairment charge, was approximately $308.1 million and 19.2 percent of revenue, which represents an increase in adjusted operating income of $12.6 million and 4.3 percent, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, which is adjusted for the aforementioned all-direct sales strategy transition impacts. adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. 62 see the subsection above titled effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories for details regarding transitional costs related to moving to an all-direct sales strategy for vetlab consumables and rapid assay products and services within our cag segment in the u.s. companion animal group. the following table presents cag operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 263,907 19.5% $ 244,190 20.0% $ 19,717 8.1% general and administrative 159,851 11.8% 137,192 11.2% 22,659 16.5% research and development 72,226 5.3% 70,279 5.5% 1,947 2.8% total operating expenses $ 495,984 36.6% $ 451,661 36.9% $ 44,323 9.8% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, resulting primarily from our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. as well as increases in global commercial resources, and incremental information technology costs to support the all-direct sales strategy. these unfavorable factors were partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the absence of $9.5 million in non-recurring transition costs to implement this all-direct sales strategy. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs and, to a lesser extent, incremental credit card fees associated with our transition to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs, partly offset by lower external development and materials costs. water. the following table presents water operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 12,204 12.6% $ 11,494 12.1% $ 710 6.2% general and administrative 9,058 9.3% 9,226 9.7% (168) (1.8%) research and development 2,939 3.0% 2,942 3.1% (3) (0.1%) total operating expenses $ 24,201 25.0% $ 23,662 25.0% $ 539 2.3% the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and increased spending on promotional activities, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. general and administrative expense for the year ended december 31, 2015 was generally consistent with 2014 as the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates was almost entirely offset by increased personnel-related costs. research and development expense was also generally consistent with 2014. livestock, poultry and dairy. the following table presents lpd operating expenses by functional area: for the year for the year ended ended operating expenses december 31, percent of december 31, percent of dollar percentage (dollars in thousands) 2015 revenue 2014 revenue change change sales and marketing $ 22,307 17.5% $ 25,367 18.0% $ (3,060) (12.1%) general and administrative 18,655 14.7% 17,354 12.3% 1,301 7.5% research and development 11,868 9.3% 13,010 9.2% (1,142) (8.8%) total operating expenses $ 52,830 41.6% $ 55,731 39.5% $ (2,901) (5.2%) the decrease in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted from higher personnel-related costs, partly offset by the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the decrease in research and development expense was due primarily to lower personnel-related costs and the favorable impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 63 other. operating expenses for other, which totaled $10.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, decreased $1.3 million as compared to 2014, due primarily to a reduction in opti medical spending for external product development and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partly offset by higher personnel-related costs. unallocated amounts. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments decreased by $6.1 million to $6.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, due primarily to budget-to-actual differences in personnel-related costs due to cost control initiatives, as well as the absence of certain foreign currency losses on monetary assets, partly offset by the impairment of internal-use software recorded during 2015. we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. interest income and interest expense interest income was $2.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to $1.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase in interest income was due primarily to higher yields from our portfolio of marketable securities that we purchased during 2015. interest expense was $29.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to $15.4 million for 2014. the increase in interest expense was due primarily to approximately $450 million in senior notes that we issued and sold through private placements between july 2014 and june 2015, for which fixed interest rates range from 1.785 percent to 3.76 percent. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. in addition, increased interest expense resulted from the impact of higher average borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility. provision for income taxes our effective income tax rate was 29.7 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015 and 26.2 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase in our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, was related to lower relative earnings subject to international tax rates that are lower than domestic tax rates, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, as well as a non-recurring benefit recognized during the period ended december 31, 2014 related to the deferral of intercompany profits that were included in tax provisions prior to 2014 in error, which is not material to prior interim or annual periods. on december 18, 2015 the protecting americans from tax hikes act of 2015 was passed (2015 path act). the 2015 path act provided a retroactive and permanent extension of the u.s. research and development ( r&amp;d ) tax credit. as a result, we recorded the entire 2015 tax benefit during the three months ended december 31, 2015. as the r&amp;d tax credit was available for both the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, it did not have a significant impact on changes in our full-year effective tax rate. recent accounting pronouncements a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements is included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016 included in this annual report on form 10-k. 64 liquidity and capital resources we fund the capital needs of our business through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, and amounts available on our $850 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility under an amended and restated credit agreement that we executed in december 2015 (the credit facility ). in addition, we issued $150 million of senior notes in february 2015 and 88.9 million of euro-denominated senior notes in june 2015. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, we purchased marketable debt securities using a portion of our cash balances. at de cember 31, 2016 we had $391.8 million of cash , cash equivalents and marketable securities , as compared to $342.6 million on december 31, 2015, and $322.5 million on december 31, 2014 . working capital, including our credit facility, totaled negative $89.0 million at december 31, 2016, as compared to negative $35.1 million at december 31, 2015, and negative $61.5 million at december 31, 2014. additionally, at december 31, 201 6 , we had remainin g borrowing availability of $238 million under our $850 million credit facility. we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain additional borrowings at similar rates to our existing borrowings to fund our growth objectives. we further believe that current cash and cash equivalents, our portfolio of short-duration marketable securities, funds generated from operations, and committed borrowing availability will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital purchase requirements, and anticipated growth needs for the next twelve months. we believe that these resources, coupled with our ability, as needed, to obtain additional financing on favorable terms will also be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our business as currently conducted. we consider the majority of the operating earnings of certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the u.s. no provision has been made for the payment of u.s. federal and state or international taxes that may result from future remittances of these undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries. changes to this position could have adverse tax consequences. a determination of the related tax liability that would be paid on these undistributed earnings if repatriated is not practicable for several reasons including the complexity of laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we operate, the varying tax treatment of potential repatriation scenarios and the timing of any future repatriation. we manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among all of our subsidiaries. our foreign cash and marketable securities are generall y available without restrictions to fund ordinary business operations outside the u.s. the following table presents cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically and by our foreign subsidiaries: cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities for the years ended december 31, (dollars in millions) 2016 2015 2014 u.s. $ 4.8 $ 1.4 $ 1.1 foreign 387.0 341.2 321.4 total $ 391.8 342.6 322.5 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in u.s. dollars $ 285.8 $ 239.2 $ 211.1 percentage of total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in u.s. dollars 72.9% 69.8% 65.5% these foreign held amounts are subject to material repatriation tax effects. we held marketable securities with effective maturities of two years or less that had an average a a- credi t rating as of december 31, 2016 . 65 the following table presents marketable securities at fair value for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015: for the year for the year ended ended marketable securities december 31, percent of december 31, percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 total 2015 total corporate bonds $ 130,771 55.2% $ 177,613 83.2% certificates of deposit 40,400 17.1% 3,500 1.6% u.s. government bonds 12,231 5.2% 12,871 6.0% agency bonds 4,604 1.9% 12,065 5.6% asset backed securities 27,315 11.5% - 0.0% commercial paper 20,228 8.5% 3,491 1.6% all other 1,400 0.6% 4,051 1.9% total marketable securities $ 236,949 $ 213,591 we did not have any marketable securities in 2014. of the $154.9 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2016, 76 percent was held as bank deposits, 22 percent was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities, and the remainder consisted of commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of less than ninety days. of the $129.0 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2015, 85 percent was held as bank deposits, 6 percent was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities, 6 percent was invested in money market funds invested in highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities and the remainder consisted of commercial paper and agency bonds with original maturities of less than ninety days. should we require more capital in the u.s. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the u.s. through debt or equity issuances. these alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates or increased interest expense and other dilution of our earnings. we have borrowed funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. the following table presents additional key information concerning working capital: for the three months ended december 31, september 30, june 30, march 31, december 31, 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 days sales outstanding (1) 42.1 42.4 41.5 43.7 43.3 inventory turns (2) 2.0 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.5 (1) days sales outstanding represents the average of the accounts receivable balances at the beginning and end of each quarter divided by revenue for that quarter, the result of which is then multiplied by 91.25 days. (2) inventory turns represent inventory-related cost of product revenue for the 12 months preceding each quarter-end divided by the inventory balance at the end of the quarter. sources and uses of cash the following table presents cash provided (used): for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 net cash provided by operating activities $ 334,571 $ 216,364 $ 235,846 net cash used by investing activities (90,786) (308,406) (80,413) net cash used by financing activities (217,824) (95,552) (103,438) net effect of changes in exchange rates on cash (54) (5,948) (8,517) net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 25,907 $ (193,542) $ 43,478 66 operating activities. the increase in cash provided by operating activities of $ 118.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the prior year period , was due primarily to changes in operating assets and liabilities, as well as an increase in net income including increases in non-cash charges , primarily related to deferred taxes and depreciation and amortization . the decrease in cash provided by operating activities of $ 19.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 , as compared to the prior year period , was due primarily to changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by an increase in net income including increases in n on-cash charges , primarily related to depreciation and amortization and an impairment charge in 2015 . the following table presents cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 : for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 accounts receivable $ (22,554) $ (50,142) $ (3,626) inventories 7,648 (34,969) (38,310) accounts payable 2,117 (2,468) 6,703 deferred revenue 7,672 (319) 14,195 other assets and liabilities 8,119 18,087 11,319 tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements (14,702) (11,315) (16,078) total change in cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements $ (11,700) $ (81,126) $ (25,797) the reduction in cash used by accounts receivable for the year ended december 31, 2016, was primarily due to the absence of the impacts related to our change in u.s. commercial strategy impacting the first quarter of 2015. the incremental cash used by accounts receivable for the year ended december 31, 2015, was primarily due to our transition to an all-direct strategy in the u.s., including the establishment of accounts receivable directly with our u.s. end-users that previously purchased from our u.s. distribution partners, which take a longer elapsed time to collect. additionally, accounts receivable is impacted by increasing revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, relative to the prior periods, including the margin capture associated with the aforementioned all-direct strategy. in contrast, we received the benefit of collecting the final accounts receivable from our u.s. distribution partners during december 2014. the net incremental cash provided by inventories for 2016 was primarily due to operational initiatives to optimize inventory levels following a period of inventory growth to support new products and increasing demand. cash used by inventories for 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to growth in our volume commitment rental programs in international markets and relatively higher inventory levels to support new instrument and diagnostic test launches. the cash provided by deferred revenue for the year ended december 31, 20 16, as compared to cash used for the same period in 2015 , was primarily due to sales under our catalyst one introductory offer , that was introduced in 2014 and increased cash provided by deferred revenue during 2014. the amount of deferred revenue for 2015 and 2016 returned to typical operating levels. prior to the catalyst one instrument launch during november 2014, we pre-sold the instrument under a customer marketing program through which customers preordering a catalyst one were initially provided with the right to use a catalyst dx instrument. under this marketing program, we deferred $7 million of instrument revenue in 2014, which was fully recognized in 2015 upon delivery of the catalyst one instruments or customer election to keep the catalyst dx was received. the decrease in cash provided by other assets and liabilities for the year ended december 31, 2016, was the result of higher taxable income in 2015, as compared to the same period in the prior year. income tax payments were lower during 2015 resulting from one-time impacts of implementing our u.s. all-direct strategy and the benefit from the tax increase prevention act enactment late in the fourth quarter of 2014. the net incremental cash provided by other assets and liabilities for 2015 was also due to the recognition of previously deferred catalyst instrument costs under the catalyst one introductory offer during 2015. these factors were partly offset by the incremental cash used for personnel-related accruals, including higher relative payments related to employee incentive programs and higher payments for other accruals due to increases in expenses for the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to 2014. 67 tax benefits from share-based compensation arrangements is the result of taxes from the vesting of restricted stock units and exercises of stock-options. this amount will fluctuate based on stock price, as compared to the strike prices of stock options, as well as employees timing of exercises. we have historically experienced proportionally lower net cash flows from operating activities during the first quarter and proportionally higher cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of the year and for the annual period driven primarily by payments related to annual employee incentive programs in the first quarter following the year for which the bonuses were earned and the seasonality of vector-borne disease testing, which has historically resulted in significant increases in accounts receivable balances during the first quarter of the year. investing activities . cash used by investing activities was $ 90.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $ 308.4 million used for the year ended december 31, 2015, and $80.4 million used for the year ended december 31, 2014. the decrease in cash used by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016, as well as the increase in cash used for the year ended december 31, 2015, was due primarily to the purchase of marketable securities in 2015 . our total capital expenditure plan for 201 7 is estimated to be approximately $ 9 0 million, which includes capital investments in manufacturing and reference laboratory equipment, investments in internal use software and information technology infrastructure and the renovation and expansion of our facilities and reference laboratories. financing activities. cash used by financing activities was $217.8 million, for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $ 95.6 million used for the year ended december 31, 2015 , and $10 3.4 million used for the year ended december 31, 2014 . the in crease in cash used by financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015 was due to the issuance of senior notes in 2015, as well as a decrease in cash used to repurchase our common stock. the decrease in cash used by financing activities for year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 was due to a decrease in cash used to repurchase our common stock, the aggregate issuance of approximately $250 million of senior notes during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to $200 million of senior notes issued during the same period in 2014, as well as lower relative net borrowings under the credit facility during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014. in june 2015, we entered into an amended and restated multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the 2015 amended agreement ), among the company, prudential investment management, inc. ( prudential ) and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein, which amends and restates the note purchase and private shelf agreement dated july 21, 2014. pursuant to the 2015 amended agreement, we issued and sold through a private placement a principal amount of 88.9 million of 1.785% series c senior notes due june 18, 2025 (the 2025 series c notes ). we used the net proceeds from this issuance and sale of the 2025 series c notes for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. in december 2014, we entered into a multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the metlife agreement ) with accredited institutional purchasers named therein pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell $75 million of 3.25% series a senior notes having a seven-year term (the 2022 notes ) and $75 million of 3.72% series b senior notes having a twelve-year term (the 2027 notes ). in february 2015, we issued and sold the 2022 notes and the 2027 notes pursuant to the metlife agreement. we used the net proceeds from these issuance and sales for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. 68 cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock decreased by $ 97.9 million during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015 . cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock decreased by $216.2 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 . from the inception of our share repurchase program in august 1999 to december 31, 2016 , we have repurchased 61.3 million shares. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we purchased 3.1 million shares for an aggregate cost of $313.1 million, as compared to purchases of 5.7 million shares for an aggregate cost of $406.4 million during 2015 and purchases of 9.8 million shares for an aggregate cost of $618.2 million during 2014. we believe that the repurchase of our common stock is a favorable means of returning value to our shareholders and we also repurchase our stock to offset the dilutive effect of our share-based compensation programs. repurchases of our common stock may vary depending upon the level of other investing activities and the share price. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our share repurchases. as noted above, we refinanced our existing $700 million credit facility during december 2015, increasing the principal amount there under to $850 million. the credit facility matures on december 4, 2020 and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. although the credit facility does not mature until december 2020, all amounts borrowed under the terms of the credit facility are reflected in the current liabilities section in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because the credit facility contains a subjective material adverse event clause, which allows the debt holders to call the loans under the credit facility if we fail to notify the syndicate of such an event. applicable interest rates on borrowings under the credit facility generally range from 1.250 to 1.375 percentage points above the london interbank offered rate or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate, based on our leverage ratio, or the prevailing prime rate plus a maximum spread of up to 0.375 percent, based on our leverage ratio. net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in more cash provided of $ 14 .0 million during the year ended december 31, 201 6 , as compared to the same period in 2015 . at december 31, 201 6 , we had $ 611 .0 million outstanding under the credit facility. net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in less cash provided of $248.0 million during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period of the prior year. at december 31, 2015, we had $573.0 million outstanding under the credit facility. the general availability of funds under the credit facility was further reduced by $1.0 million for a letter of credit that was issued in connection with claims under our workers compensation policy. the credit facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of subsidiaries of the company, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates , and certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations . the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation not to excee d 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility. the obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness, cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness and a change of control default. since december 2013, we have issued and sold through private placements senior notes having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $600 million pursuant to certain note purchase agreements (collectively, the senior note agreements ). the senior note agreements contain affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for agreements of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of our subsidiaries, priority indebtedness, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates, certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. 69 should we elect to prepay the senior notes, such aggregate prepayment will include the applicable make-whole amount(s), as defined within the applicable senior note agreements. additionally, in the event of a change in control of the company , or upon the disposition of certain assets of the company the proceeds of which are not reinvested (as defined in the senior note agreements), we may be required to prepay all or a portion of the senior notes. the obligations under the senior notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the applicable senior note agreement, each of which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness and cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness. the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation, as defined in the senior note agreements, not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 201 6 , we were in compliance with the covenants of the senior note agreements. the following details our consolidated leverage ratio calculation as of december 31, 2016 ( in thousands ): december trailing 12 months adjusted ebitda: 2016 net income attributable to stockholders $ 222,045 interest expense 32,049 provision for income taxes 99,792 depreciation and amortization 78,218 share-based compensation expense 19,891 extraordinary and other non-recurring non-cash charges 2,228 adjusted ebitda $ 454,223 december debt to adjusted ebitda ratio: 2016 line of credit $ 611,000 long-term debt 593,110 total debt 1,204,110 acquisition-related consideration payable 2,435 capitalized leases 581 u.s. gaap change - deferred financing costs 554 gross debt 1,207,680 gross debt to adjusted ebitda ratio 2.66 cash and cash equivalents (154,901) marketable securities (236,949) net debt $ 815,830 net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio 1.80 adjusted ebitda, gross debt, net debt, gross debt to adjusted ebitda and net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio are non-gaap financial measures which shou ld b e c ons i d e r ed in a dd ition t o , a n d no t a a r e p lac emen t fo r, financial measures presented according to u.s. gaap. managem e n t b elie v es th at reporting these non-gaap financial measures provides supplemental analysis to help investors further evaluate our business performance and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility . 70 other commitments, contingencies and guarantees under our workers compensation insurance policies for u.s. employees, we have retained the first $300,000 for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, in claim liability per incident with aggregate maximum claim liabilities per year of $2.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, $3.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, and $2.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . workers compensation expense recognized during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 and our respective liability for such claims as of december 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 was not material. claims incurred during the years e nded december 31, 2016 and 2015, are relatively undeveloped as of december 31, 201 6 . therefore, it is possible that we could incur additional healthcare and wage indemnification costs beyond those previously recognized up to our aggregate liability for each of the respec tive claim years. for the years ended on or pr ior to december 31, 2014 , based on our retained claim liability per incident and our aggregate claim liability per year, our maximum liability in excess of the amounts deemed probable and previously recognized, is not material as of december 31, 2016. as of december 31, 2016, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $1.3 million to the insurance companies as security for these claims in connection with these policies , of which, $1.0 million reduces our availability under our credit facility . under our current employee healthcare insurance policy for u.s. employees, we retain claims liability risk per incident up to $450 ,000 per year in 2016, $425 ,000 per year in 2015 and $375 ,000 per year in 2014. we recognized employee healthcare claim expense of $40.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2016, $34.6 million during the year ended december 31, 2015, and $32.0 million during the year ended december 31, 2014, which represents actual claims paid and an estimate of our liability for the uninsured portion of employee healthcare obligations that have been incurred but not paid. should employee health insurance claims exceed our estimated liability, we would have further obligations. our estimated liability for healthcare claims that have been incurred but not paid were $4.0 million as of december 31, 2016, $4.8 million as of december 31, 2015, and $4.1 million as of december 31, 2014. we have total acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities outstanding of up to $6.4 million primarily related to the achievement of certain revenue milestones. we have recorded $0.9 million at december 31, 2016, $5.9 million at december 31, 2015, and $6.3 million at december 31, 2014, of contingent consideration liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. we have not accrued for $5.5 million of contingent consideration liabilities, related to the acquisition of an intangible asset in 2008, as we do not deem the achievement of associated revenue milestones to be probable of occurring as of december 31, 2016. we are contractually obligated to make the following payments in the years below: contractual obligations (in thousands) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 752,985 $ 20,154 $ 40,309 $ 89,617 $ 602,905 operating leases 57,861 15,724 20,829 12,258 9,050 purchase obligations (2) 179,221 153,265 16,497 5,817 3,642 minimum royalty payments 1,565 554 371 221 419 total contractual cash obligations $ 991,632 $ 189,697 $ 78,006 $ 107,913 $ 616,016 (1) long-term debt amounts include interest payments associated with long-term debt. (2) purchase obligations include agreements and purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities, pricing, and approximate timing of purchase transactions. these commitments do not reflect u nrecognized tax benefits of $18.5 million and $2.2 million of deferred compensation liabilities as of december 31, 201 6, as the timing of recognitio n is uncertain. refer to note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits. 71 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manuf acturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s. or in u.s. dollars , but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended dece mber 31, 201 6 , approximately 2 1 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 20 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015, and 22 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for three of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands , singapore and dubai , the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency exchange impacts are comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and exp enses; 2) the impact of hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is di fferent from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projecte d revenues and expenses for 2017 , excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 1 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce revenue by approximately $7 million and oper ating income by approximately $ 3 million . additionally, our foreign currency hedge contract in place as of december 31, 2016 would provide incremental offsetting gains of approximately $1 million . the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, a they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. at our current foreign exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate that the effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will have a n adverse effect on our operating results by decreasing our revenues, operating profit and diluted earnings per share in the year ending december 31, 2017 , by approximately $2 6 million, $8 million, and $0.06 per share, respectively. this unfavorable impact includes foreign currency hedging activity, which is expected to increase total company operating profit by approximately $ 3 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.0 3 in the year ending december 31, 2017. the actual impact of changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we transact may materially differ from our expectations described above. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $1.06, the british pound at $1.23, the canadian dollar at $0.75, the australian dollar at $0.75 and the japanese yen at 117 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2017. the following table is the foreign currency exchange impacts on our revenues, operating profit and diluted earning per share for the years dec ember 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, as compared to the respective prior periods: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 revenue impact $ (14,105) $ (89,692) $ (10,978) operating profit impact, excluding hedge activity $ (6,921) $ (38,286) $ (7,544) hedge gains - prior year (20,879) (3,821) (3,469) hedge gains - current year 3,620 20,879 3,821 hedging activity impact (17,259) 17,058 352 operating profit impact, including hedge activity $ (24,180) $ (21,228) $ (7,192) diluted earnings per share impact, including hedge activity $ (0.20) $ (0.16) $ (0.05) the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a hedging instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge 72 are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year . from time to time, we may also enter into other foreign currency exchange contracts or foreign-denominated debt issuances to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific balance sheet exposures, including net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries . see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding euro-denominated notes that we designated as a hedge of our euro net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2016 . we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions. as a result, no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations for the years ended decem ber 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 . our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales is to employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, with the exception of certain emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge our exposure. we hedge approximately 85 percent of the estimated exposure from intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and swiss franc. we have additional unhedged foreign currency exposures related to foreign services and emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchase and sales t otaled $ 175.9 million at december 31, 2016, and $ 176.1 million at dec ember 31, 2015 . at december 31, 2016, we had $ 5.4 million of net unrealized gains on foreign currency exchange contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax expense. we have a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $ 850 million with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on december 4 , 20 20 ( credit facility ) and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. alt hough the credit facility does not mature until december 4 , 20 20 , all individual borrowings under the terms of the credit facility have a stated term between 30 and 180 days. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 201 6, were $ 611 .0 million at a weighted-average effective interest rate of 1.95 percent . based on amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 201 6 , an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1 percent would increase interest expense by approximately $ 6.1 million on an annualized basis. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we purchased marketable debt securities, which are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet included in this annual report on form 10-k. the fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities is subject to changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2016, we estimate that a 1 percent increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our marketable securities portfolio by approximately $0.9 million.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public a nd they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. 5 part i item 1. business company overview idexx was incorporated in delaware in 1983. we develop, manufacture , and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary , livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing m arkets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments, consumables, and rapid assay test kits ; veterinary reference l aboratory diagnostic and consulting services; practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinarians; biological mat erials testing , laboratory diagnostic instruments and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry and dairy ; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our purpose guides our strategy: to be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and shareholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. description of business by segment we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, and improve bovine reproductive efficiency, which we refer to as livestock , poultry and dairy ( lpd ) . our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-car e medical diag nostics market ( opti medical ) with our pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2017, sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 39 percent of our overall revenue. see part i , item 1a. risk factors , part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 201 7, included in this annual report on f orm 10-k for more information about our segments and revenue from customers outside of the u.s. 6 we believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by idexx, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering, comprise a unique competitive advantage, providing veterinarians with the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. we believe that w ith the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and effectively communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. we believe that t hese capabilities, enabled by the use of idexx products and services, improve the financial health of the veterinary practice. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. 7 integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from all of idexx diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision making . in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarian and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. customers have activated vetconnect plus in over 80 countries. in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis, and coagulation analyzers, associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results and a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate, and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we sell three chemistry analyzers, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by opti medical systems, inc. ( opti medical ), one of our wholly- owned subsidiaries, and other slides also manufactured by idexx. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers in clude glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein , and many others . tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease. the catalyst analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital, fructosamine and total thyroxine ( t 4 ). key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum , a nd urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterin arians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our fructosamine test helps veterinarians to diagnose and manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments , and adjust insulin dosages. we launched our total t 4 test globally for use on the catalyst one analyzer during the first quarter of 2015 and for use on the catalyst dx analyzer early in the third quarter of 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing and managing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. the catalyst one analyzer, launched in november 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work f low as the catalyst dx analyzer . the catalyst one analyzer currently offers all the same tests as the catalyst dx, plus an expanded menu of 30 tests, including tests for thyroid disease, kidney disease, diabetes , and therapeutic drug monitoring. 8 in january 2018, we launched the catalyst sdma test in north america, which allows our customers to use the catalyst one and catalyst dx to screen for sdma. we expect to launch our catalyst sdma test outside of north america in 2018 as well . we also have two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer . the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by opti medical. sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab instruments. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer , the first and only in-house analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence , and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the original lasercyte hematology analyzer and the latest generation lasercyte dx hematology analyzer , launched in 2013, which both use laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer , our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer , the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer , which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders . the procyte dx analyzer, our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx an alyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils and nucleated red blood cells, for a more complete picture of a patient health. the procyte dx is validated for many animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabb it, gerbil, pig, guinea pig, mini pig , llama, alpaca, camel, sheep, goat, dolphin, and hamster ) with research and development efforts focused on validating results for additional species. immunoassay testing instruments . during the first quarter of 2014, we launched the snap pro mobile d evice , whic h automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run , and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results on the snap pro mobile screen, or via vetconnect plus . in addition, the snap pro mobile d evice improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. in january 2017 , we launched proread for the snap pro mobile device . proread is a software upgrade that enables the snap pro mobile device to interpret the test results. with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets , and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, snap feline triple test and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . in april 2016, we launch ed the sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer in north america . in the fourth quarter of 2016 we launched sedivue dx in the uk and australia . during the first half of 2017, we continued our international launch of sedivue dx to include other parts of europe and new zealand. we plan to continue our international deployment in 2018 to include switzerland, poland, and japan. sedivue dx is the first and only veterinary in -clinic urine sediment analyzer. it is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis. sedivue dx brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform a complete urinalysis in approximately 3 minutes. sedivue dx uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinically relevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record. the i dexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. 9 idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capabili ty. ivls securely connects to the i nternet, and in this way , enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services , remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus . we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst one , catalyst dx, l asercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers , snap pro mobile device, snapshot dx analyzer and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid a ssays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instru mentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded au tomatically by the snapshot dx analyzer or activated and captured automa tically by the snap pro mobile d evice and interpreted using proread, as discu ssed above. the principal snap rapid a ssay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : nap 4dx plus, which tests for the six vector -borne diseases ; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap heart worm rt, which tests for hear tworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which te sts for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a commo n cause of waterborne infection; and snap lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice in the northern hemisphere . single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to aids in humans), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. 10 outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, new zealand, south africa, south korea , and brazil . we have reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee and leipzig , germany that are strategically located near large logistics hubs of major air cargo carriers . customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes , and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice in the northern hemisphere . in the third quarter of 2015, we launched the idexx sdma test in north america, a new proprietary kidney test which detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. upon its introduction in north america, the idexx sdma test was included in every chemistry panel submitted by our customers at no incremental charge. during the first quarter of 2016, we launched the idexx sdma test in all of the major european countries and australia, followed by a full international launch of the idexx sdma test during the remainder of 2016. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched hookworm and roundworm antigen tests to all fecal panels that already include the whipworm antigen test. these new intestinal parasite panels detect the presence of intestinal worms left undiagnosed by current methods, finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine , and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine , and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmi tted by telephone and over the i nternet. our diag nostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers in north america, europe , and asia. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems veterinary software and services . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing , and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone, dvmax, animana and idexx neo. idexx neo, which we launched in the united states during the third quarter of 2015, and idexx animana are cloud-based practice management systems available in the u.s., europe , and australia. we also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including better choice, vpm, vetlink and beefree . our practice management services include payment solutions, data backup &amp; recovery and petdetect boarding collars. in addition, we offer client communication and preventive care plan management services designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. we commercially launched pet health network pro in 2013, which is a subscription-based service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based service that replaces cumbersome plastic anatomy models with engaging, three-dimension anatomical animations on a desktop or mobile device. in september 2014, we acquired petly plans, a cloud-based software solution for veterinary practices to customize, manage and monitor a range of monthly payment preventive care plans for their pet owner clients. petly plans complements the pet health network suite of client marketing services by making it easier for practices to increase access to the best care and offer plans that spread the cost of that care, including 11 examinations, vaccines , and diagnostics, over the course of the year. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. with our acquisition of rvetlink in june 2017, w e now also offer a comprehensive referral management solution for specialty care hospitals that streamlines the referral process between primary care and specialty care veterinarians. general practice veterinarians occasionally refer patients to board-certified specialists for advanced care in areas such as cardiology, oncology, dermatology, ophthalmology, surgery, or internal medicine. rvetlink automates the time-consuming process of sharing medical records and images, and sending notifications to facilitate generalist-specialist collaboration in the delivery of care. rvetlink cloud technology integrates with our other major specialty hospital management systems, including idexx cornerstone software and idexx dvmax software. di agnostic imaging systems . o ur di agnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three di agnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the idexx imagevue dr50, the idexx imagevue dr40 and the idexx imagevue cr20. our newest radiography system, the idexx imagevue dr50, was launched in june 2016 and enables low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality images, a component in reducing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. the idexx imagevue dr50 system also offers wireless capabilities for flexibility in patient positioning. our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) sof tware called idexx-pacs, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. idexx web pacs is our cloud-based software-as-a-service ( saas ) offering for viewing, accessing, storing, and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, idexx neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. idexx web pacs updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. the new software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners. idexx i-vision mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with idexx digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. 12 our principal products are the coli lert, colilert-18 and colisure tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. these products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater , and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste , and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa , and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer ear and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems . our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardi a t esting products. 13 in july 2016, we launched legiolert, a simple culture method test for the detection of legionella pneumophila , the most common legionella species in water and the primary cause of legionnaires disease. the legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert or heterotrophic plate count (hpc) products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. in the second quarter of 2015, we launched the quanti-tray sealer plus, a next generation instrument of the previously available quanti-tray sealer 2x. these instruments are used with the quanti-tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts , and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. 14 we sell diagnostic tests , services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve bovine reproductive efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic p roducts are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers , and processors. our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the ani mal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine , leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth, and vulnerability to secondary infections. our principal dairy products use our snap test format and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product lines are snap beta-lactam st and snapduo beta-tetra st, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in june 2016, we launched the rapid visual pregnancy test for cattle, which is a point-of-care test that can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding. this test provides a quick and accurate identifier using whole blood samples that will enable veterinarians to optimize value-added medical consulting services while on farm visits. 15 other opti medical through opti medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer , which launched in 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzer s, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma , and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. in addition, opti medical manufactures our vetstat analyzer, an instrument and consumable system that is a member of the idexx vetlab suite for the veterinary market, and provides the dry slides for electrolyte testing on the catalyst analyzers for our cag segment . other activities we own ce rtain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek t o commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are included in the other segment. marketing and distribution we market, sell , and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales , and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in a ll major regions including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe , middle east, and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical ervice requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements , and other factors. effective january 1, 2015, we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. prior to januar y 1, 2015 , w e market ed our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide generally through our direct sales force. we market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s., canada, europe, and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business segments. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $109.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 5.5 percent of our consolidated revenue, $101.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 5.7 percent of our consolidated revenue and $99.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or 6.2 percent of our consolidated revenue. 16 patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our product and offerings, strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. important patents and licenses include: an e xclusive license from tulane university to patents that expire in 2019 relating to reagents for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap products that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap products that expire beginning in 2019 and continuing into 2022; a patent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables that expire beginning in 2023 and continuing into 2029; patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire beginning in 2026 and continuing into 2035; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of sdma that expire in 2029. in addition, we have pending u.s. patent applications concerning reagents and methods for detecting sdma. if such applications are granted, we expect the associated patents would have expirations ranging from 2036 to 2038. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to us , a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; our online ordering platform that enables direct ordering of (including establishing automatic reorder schedules for) our consumables, tests and other products by our customers; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our investment in diagnostic innovations that results in new product offerings that often are patentable and that expand the test menu for our in-house instruments and/or reference laboratory business; our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2017, and are expected to expire in 2018 and beyond, the expiration of these patents , individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company financial position or future operations. in addition , we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights . to the extent some of our products may now , or in the future , embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights , or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 17 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties . w e rely on third parties in our supply chain to supply us , and our direct suppliers, with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases , these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. from time to time we seek to qualify alternative suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine, t 4 , crp, and sdma slides ), vetlyte consumables, lasercyte and lasercyte dx co nsumables, vettest, vetautoread and procyte dx analyzers and consumables , sedivue dx urinalysis instrument and consumables and components of our snap pro mobile device. vettest and catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry sl ides in the veterinary market, excluding the eu, o ther than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials , and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock , and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain significant backlog orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. 18 competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human and animal health pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies , and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. se veral of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, unique product innovations, fully integrated technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca inc., a division of mars inc., abax is, inc., heska corporation, zoetis inc ., samsung electronics co., ltd. and fujifilm north america corporation . in 2015, following our transition to an all-direct sales and distribution model in the u.s., certain of our competitors began to sell products through our formerly exclusive u.s. distributors. see part ii , item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations and trends for more information. we also compete in certain international markets with fujifilm holdings corporation, samsung electronics, arkray, inc. and bionote, inc. water, livestock , poultry , and dairy testing products. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multi-billion dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. veterinary software, services and d i agnostic imaging ystems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america and europe. o ur largest competitor is henry schein in north america and the u.k., which offers several systems and leverages their animal health distribution business in sales and service. we also compete with numerous focused smaller companies throughout the markets in which we offer veterinary software . electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. 19 government regulation many of ou r products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, registrations, manufacturing, import, export, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage , and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval , including for the purpose of obtaining product registration, as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with importing and marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, canada, brazil, the netherlands , and many other countries. we are also required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our lpd manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the fda under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled , or misbranded under the fdc act. in the eu, our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are not subject to regulation under the european medical device directive or the in vitro diagnostic directive, which are both strictly applicable to human use products. however, these systems are subject to the requirements of the electromagnetic compatibility directive, which applies to all electronic or electrical products capable of causing or being disturbed by electromagnetic interference and requires european conformity marking on our analyzers. in addition, we anticipate our analyzers will be subject to the requirements of the restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, beginning in july 2019. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. 20 human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class i and/or class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. the european union regulates and restricts the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these requirements include the biocidal products regulation, which may require the use of approved biocides in our products prior to being used or sold in the european union, the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union , and the restriction of hazardous substance or rohs which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment . compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign o r reformulation of our products. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export laws and regulations, including u.s. import and export control and sanctions laws and laws and regulations governing the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data. a ny acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of governmen t regulation. these may involve , medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc, and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees as of february 6 , 201 8 , we had approximately 7,600 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com . references to our website in this annual report on form 10-k are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com . 21 item 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating our company and our business. our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties and actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this annual report on form 10-k. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere herein. any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. because our business lines are highly attractive, they are also highly competitive. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies within this competitive environment could have a material negative impact on our future growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive, and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants given our performance and the market strong growth and returns. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related recurring sales of consumable products, services , and accessories ; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services for both our reference laboratories and in-clinic applications that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of the information and transactions of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; maintaining premium pricing, including by effectively implementing price increases, for our differentiated products and services through, among other things, effective communication and promotion of the value of our products and services in an environment where many of our competitors promote, market and sell lesser offerings at prices lower than ours; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information , and resources that enable them to grow their practices and the utilization of our diagnostic products and services, through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care ; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of reference laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand, develop, and advance the productivity of our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. and international markets in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategies; 22 attracting, developing, and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy, which is challenging due to the increasingly competitive and tight labor markets in which we operate; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and continuing to effectively manage our growth and expansion on a global scale through, among other things, designing and implementing cost-effective improvements to our processes, procedures, and infrastructure. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, breach, or termination by suppliers of their contractual obligations, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, disruption to suppliers business, including work stoppages, suppliers failure to comply with complex and changing regulations, and third party financial failure. any problems with our suppliers and associated disruptions to our supply chain could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs, or damage our reputation with our customers, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of our customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. disruption to our supply chain could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices; the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on key components; labor stoppages; transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods; the unavailability of raw materials; severe weather conditions; natural disasters; civil unrest, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism; computer viruses, physical or electronic breaches, or other information system disruptions or security breaches; and disruptions in utility and other services. for more information regarding the risks presented by natural and other disasters and system disruptions and security breaches from cyberattacks, see natural and other disasters, information technology system failures and network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks could adversely affect our business below. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; vetlyte electrolyte consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, and vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer and consumables; image capture plates used in our diagnostic imaging systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzer s, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, and water testing products. even where products and materials are available from alternate suppliers, if any becomes unavailable to us for any reason we likely would incur added costs and delays in identifying or qualifying replacement materials and there can be no assurance that replacements would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. in certain cases, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval to use alternative suppliers, and this process of approval could delay production of our products or development of product candidates indefinitely. 23 we seek to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, when possible, by entering into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are thus required to purchase products via short-term contracts or on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under those contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, or if such sole and single source suppliers are unable to obtain the components or other materials required to manufacture the products, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells, and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples, and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria and regulatory requirements. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, either of which could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 39 percent of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including, but not limited to, disruptions in transportation of our products or our supply chain; fluctuations in oil prices; increased border protection and restriction on travel; the differing product and service needs of foreign customers; difficulties in building, staffing and managing foreign operations (including a geographically dispersed workforce); differing protection of intellectual property; trade protection measures, quotas, embargoes, import/export restrictions, tariffs, duties, and regulatory and licensing requirements; natural and other disasters; ongoing instability or changes in a country or region regulatory, economic or political conditions, including as a result of the united kingdom june 2016 vote and formal notice in march 2017 to leave the european union; other unfavorable geopolitical conditions; security concerns; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 24 various u.s. and foreign government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business as a global business, we sell products and services in more than 175 countries and operate in an increasingly complex legal and regulatory environment. in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of certain of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda, or the epa. our diagnostic tests for animal health applications that involve the detection of infectious diseases, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products as well as the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa, as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa, before they can be used by customers in the u.s. delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the manufacture, import, and sale of our products, as well as our research and development processes, are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. for example, the european union regulates the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these regulations include the biocidal products regulation, which may require approval for the use of certain biocides in our products prior to being used or sold in the european union, the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union, and the restriction of hazardous substances which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products and may reduce or eliminate the availability of certain parts and components used in our products and services in the event our suppliers are unable to comply with the applicable regulations in a timely and cost-effective manner. any redesign or reformulation or restricted supply of parts and components may negatively affect the availability or performance of our products and services, add testing lead-times for products and reformulated products, reduce our margins, result in additional costs, or have other similar effects. in addition, the costs to comply with these regulations may be significant. any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. these legal and regulatory requirements are complex and subject to change, and we continue to evaluate their impact. in addition, some foreign governments require us to register our products, and these product registration requirements, which vary among the applicable jurisdictions and change from time to time, are often complex and require us to engage in lengthy and costly processes. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any product registration required by one or more foreign governments. any inability to obtain or maintain a required product registration in a jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to market and sell the applicable product in that jurisdiction, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations, as well as the associated legal and political environments, concerning, among other things, the importation and exportation of products; our business practices in the u.s. and abroad, such as anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and anti-competition laws; and immigration and travel restrictions. these legal, regulatory, and political requirements and environments differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements and adjusting to changing legal and political environments are significant and likely to increase in the future. any failure by us to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or to adjust to changing legal and political environments, could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions; product recalls; suspensions or discontinuations of, or limitations or restrictions on, our ability to design, manufacture, market, import, export or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. any of these could negatively impact our business. 25 increased competition from and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services, and we expect that future competition may become even more intense as new products, services and technologies become available and new competitors enter the market. our competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market in the united states and abroad include companies that develop, manufacture, and sell veterinary diagnostic tests and commercial veterinary reference laboratories, certain large and well-funded animal health pharmaceutical companies, as well as corporate hospital chains that operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals, such as the vertically integrated corporate hospital chain formed when mars, incorporated acquired vca inc. (formerly named vca antech, inc.) in 2017, which resulted in the combination of two large u.s. veterinary hospital chains. while we believe that our reference laboratory service offerings are competitively differentiated due to our proprietary products and services, such as the idexx sdma test, there can be no assurance that increased consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers would not have a negative impact on our ability to compete successfully. for more information regarding the risks presented by consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers, see consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business below. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets through the development of innovative new technology, the acquisition of rights to use existing technologies or the use of existing technologies when patents protecting such existing technologies expire. new or existing competitors may introduce new, innovative, and competitive products and services, which could be superior, or be perceived by our customers to be superior, to our products and services or lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products or services. while an important aspect of our strategy is to continue, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new and innovative products and services, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop such products and services or that those products or services will be superior to our competitors products or service or otherwise achieve market acceptance. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. certain of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than us, as well as greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business veterinarians are our primary customers for our cag products and services, and the veterinary services industry in the u.s. and abroad has been consolidating in recent years. in the united states., the number of owners of veterinary hospitals has been declining, and an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include mars, incorporated (owner of banfield pet hospitals, blue pearl veterinary partners, pet partners and vca inc.), and national veterinary associates. a similar trend exists in other regions such as europe, and is developing in other international markets. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies, and there can be no 26 assurance that hospitals that otherwise become affiliated with these companies would not shift all or a portion of their testing to such reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies or those that establish other affiliations with these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. in addition, changes and trends in local dairy, poultry, or other food markets around the world could negatively affect the related production markets resulting in a decline in demand for our testing products. declines in testing for any reason, including the reasons described above, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. natural and other disasters, information technology system failures and network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks could adversely affect our business our business and results of operations could be negatively affected by certain factors beyond our control, such as natural disasters (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, and floods); civil unrest; negative geopolitical conditions and developments; war, terrorism or other man-made disasters; and information technology system failures, network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks. any of these events could result in, among other things, damage to or the temporary closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities or reference laboratories (damage to one of our facilities or the manufacturing equipment we use could be costly and may require substantial lead-time to repair or replace); damage to or closure of one or more facilities of our third-party business partners or suppliers on which we rely; a temporary lack of an adequate work force in one or more markets; an interruption in power supply; a temporary or long-term disruption in our supply chain (including a disruption to our ability to obtain critical components for the manufacture of our products); a temporary disruption 27 in our ability to deliver (or delays in the delivery of) our products or services; and short- or long-term damage to our customers businesses (which would adversely impact customer demand for our products and services). for more information regarding the risks presented by disruption to our suppliers operations and supply chain, see our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results above. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; and tokyo, japan. interruption of operations at any of these facilities due to the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our third-party business partners and suppliers information systems, to provide access to our web-based products and services, keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures and engage in information system redundancy planning and processes, such measures, planning and processes, as well as our current disaster recovery plan, may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems and our business partners and suppliers information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses and malware, through the internet (including via devices and applications connected to the internet), email attachments and persons with access to these information systems, such as our employees or third parties with whom we do business. as information systems and the use of software and related applications by us, our business partners, suppliers, and customers become more cloud-based and connected to the internet of things, there has been an increase in global cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, including more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks that pose a risk to the security of our information systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data and information. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks and also offer products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things, such as our connected devices (e.g., idexx vetlab instruments). any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored thereon could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. while we have implemented network security and internal control measures, especially for the purpose of protecting our connected products and services from cyberattacks, and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack, or security breach and, as such, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains. if we or our business partners or suppliers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, or our customers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach via any of our connected products and services, it could result in a period of shutdown of information systems during which we (or our customers) may not be able to operate, the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement, potential liability for damages to our customers, reputational damage and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and profitability. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of data or information (including any of our confidential or proprietary information or personal data or information) as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, damage our ability to develop (and protect our rights to) our proprietary technologies and adversely affect our business. 28 while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we also maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products, or our services do not comply with evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection t he privacy and security of personally identifiable information stored, maintained, received , or transmitted electronically is a major issue in the united states and abroad. we offer products and services that collect and use personal data provided by client practices and individuals , including practice management systems for veterinary practices (e.g., cornerstone and idexx neo ), online client communication tools and services (e.g., pet health network pro), and cloud-based technology through vetconnect plus that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients diagnostic data from our in-clinic analyzers, our rapid assays and reference laboratories in one place. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various websites and collect contact and other personally identifiable information from our customers and visitors to our websites. numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of personally identifiable information, including personal data that we receive from our employees, customers, vendors and visitors to our websites and personal data collected by our customers and others when using our products and services. we are also subject to laws and regulations in non-u.s. countries covering data privacy and the protection of personal information. eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted , or are considering adopting, data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure , sharing and security of personal information that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, contact information, and sensitive personal data. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent revisions and differing interpretations, and have generally become more stringent over time. in many cases, the federal, state and international laws described above apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. for example, in april 2016, the eu parliament adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which, among other things, imposes more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements. the gdpr is expected to take effect in 2018. the laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection continue to develop, are subject to differing interpretations and may be applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may be inconsistent with our current data protection and privacy policies and practices. further, the costs associated with compliance with these evolving legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future and as a result may cause us to incur substantial costs, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business or limit our ability to use and share personal data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us, the third parties with whom we work or our products and services to protect employee, applicant, vendor, website visitor or customer personal data (including as a result of a breach by or of a third-party provider) or to comply with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles or our posted privacy policies could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, c oncerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personally identifiable information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business. we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user personal data. 29 strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business we are a global business, with 39 percent of our revenue during the year ended december 31, 2017, attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside of the u.s. any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, australian dollar and brazilian real, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales and profits that are made in those currencies. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar has a greater adverse effect on the profits from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars that are exported to international markets and a lesser effect on profits from foreign sourced products and services due to a natural hedge from international expenses denominated in the corresponding foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2017, approximately 21 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 21 percent and 20 percent for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars as well as affect our overall competitiveness in international markets. the accumulated impacts from any continued, longer-term growth in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see note 17 hedging instruments in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar, and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since our hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by 30 government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. we sell many products through distributors, which presents risks that could negatively affect our operating results some of our product sales in international markets occur through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to promote and create demand for our products. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products or to maintain certain inventory levels, and changes in our distributors inventory levels, as compared to comparable prior periods, could negatively impact our revenue growth rates. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business and reputation, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failure to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, any of which could have a negative effect on our operating results. future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities the nature of our international operations subjects us to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in jurisdictions around the world. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. additionally, tax rules governing cross-border activities are continually subject to modification as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted in the u.s. on december 22, 2017 and includes significant changes to the u.s. corporate tax system. effective january 1, 2018, the tax act reduce d the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percen t to 21 percent, and transitioned from a worldwide tax system to a territorial ta x system. the tax act introduced new provisions including the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat ), expanded bonus depreciation and change d deductions for executive compensation and interest expense. we continue to assess the impact of the new provisions which become effective beginning in 2018. see note 12 income taxes in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the impact of the tax act. we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. 31 our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative, and financial covenants. our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. we are subject to risks associated with fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio we invest our surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, including corporate bonds, commercial paper, and a short-term money market fund which invests in securities issued or sponsored by the u.s. government. the value and liquidity of these marketable securities may fluctuate substantially, and could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio, geopolitical events, or other factors. any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in the value of our portfolio could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 32 fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; timing of regulatory approvals and licenses; litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as other general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. the following factors, in addition to other factors described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this form 10-k, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: changes in customer needs, expectations or trends and our ability to maintain relationships with key customers; our ability to implement our business strategy; our stock repurchase program; changes in our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt; public announcements (including the timing of these announcements) regarding our business, financial performance and prospects or new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us; trading activity in our stock, including portfolio transactions in our stock by us, our executive officers and directors, and significant stockholders or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which we may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index; short-interest in our common stock, which could be significant from time to time; our inclusion in, or removal from, any stock indices; investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; whether or not we meet earnings estimates of securities analysts who follow us; and general financial, domestic, international, economic and market conditions, including overall fluctuations in the u.s. equity markets. in addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see note 17 hedging instruments in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar, and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since our hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by 30 government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. we sell many products through distributors, which presents risks that could negatively affect our operating results some of our product sales in international markets occur through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to promote and create demand for our products. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors products and promote our competitors products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products or to maintain certain inventory levels, and changes in our distributors inventory levels, as compared to comparable prior periods, could negatively impact our revenue growth rates. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. in addition, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business and reputation, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failure to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, any of which could have a negative effect on our operating results. future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities the nature of our international operations subjects us to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in jurisdictions around the world. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. additionally, tax rules governing cross-border activities are continually subject to modification as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted in the u.s. on december 22, 2017 and includes significant changes to the u.s. corporate tax system. effective january 1, 2018, the tax act reduce d the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percen t to 21 percent, and transitioned from a worldwide tax system to a territorial ta x system. the tax act introduced new provisions including the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat ), expanded bonus depreciation and change d deductions for executive compensation and interest expense. we continue to assess the impact of the new provisions which become effective beginning in 2018. see note 12 income taxes in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the impact of the tax act. we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. 31 our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative, and financial covenants. our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. we are subject to risks associated with fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio we invest our surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, including corporate bonds, commercial paper, and a short-term money market fund which invests in securities issued or sponsored by the u.s. government. the value and liquidity of these marketable securities may fluctuate substantially, and could be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio, geopolitical events, or other factors. any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in the value of our portfolio could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 32 fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; timing of regulatory approvals and licenses; litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as other general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. the following factors, in addition to other factors described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this form 10-k, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: changes in customer needs, expectations or trends and our ability to maintain relationships with key customers; our ability to implement our business strategy; our stock repurchase program; changes in our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt; public announcements (including the timing of these announcements) regarding our business, financial performance and prospects or new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us; trading activity in our stock, including portfolio transactions in our stock by us, our executive officers and directors, and significant stockholders or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which we may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index; short-interest in our common stock, which could be significant from time to time; our inclusion in, or removal from, any stock indices; investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; whether or not we meet earnings estimates of securities analysts who follow us; and general financial, domestic, international, economic and market conditions, including overall fluctuations in the u.s. equity markets. in addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. item 1b. unresolved staff comments not applicable. 33 item 2. properties our worldwide headquarters is located on a company-owned, 65-acre site in westbrook, maine where we occupy a 647,000 square- foot building utilized for manufacturing, research and development, marketing, sales , and general and a dministrative support functions . additional property ownership and leasing arrangements with approximate square footage, purpose and location are as follows: additional properties owned : 34,200 square feet of laboratory space located in the u.s., used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 24,800 square feet of office and laboratory space located in the u.k., used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 3,100 square feet of laboratory space located in canada, used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag additional properties leased : 63 3 , 9 00 total square feet of laboratory, office and warehousing space located throughout the u.s., europe, canada, australia, new zealand, brazil, asia , and south africa, primarily used for our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services line of business of cag 126,200 square feet of distribution, warehousing and office space in the netherlands, which serves as our european headquarters 114,400 square feet of industrial space in tennessee for distribution and warehousing related to various lines of business 84,300 square feet of office, manufacturing and warehousing space in georgia related to our opti medical line of business 84,000 total square feet of office and manufacturing space in france, switzerland , and brazil related to our livestock, poultry and dairy line of business 69,300 square feet of office space in w isconsin related to our veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems line of business of cag 65,000 square fee t of office space in maine for corporate, customer ervice , and i nformation t echnology support services 8,100 square feet of manufacturing space in the u.k. related to our water line of business we believe that our owned and leased properties are generally in good condition, are well-maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on our business. item 3. legal proceedings due to the nature of our activities, we are at times subject to pending and threatened legal actions that arise out of the ordinary course of business. in the opinion of management, based in part upon advice of legal counsel, the disposition of any such currently pending matters is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition , or cash flows. however, the results of legal actions cannot be predicted with certainty. therefore, it is possible that our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more legal actions. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 34 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is quoted on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol idxx. the following table shows the quarterly range of high and low sale prices per share of our common stock as reported on the nasdaq global select market for the years 2016 and 2017. for the quarter ended high low march 31, 2016 $ 79.03 $ 63.48 june 30, 2016 92.87 76.55 september 30, 2016 115.06 92.52 december 31, 2016 121.77 102.45 march 31, 2017 155.65 113.92 june 30, 2017 173.01 153.24 september 30, 2017 171.37 148.80 december 31, 2017 168.66 146.09 holders of common stock as of february 6 , 201 8 , there were 460 holders of record of ou r common stock. because the majority of our common stock is held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. 35 purchases of equity securities by the issuer during the three months ended december 31, 2017, we repurchased shares of common stock as described below: 1 period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share (b) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (1) (c) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (d) october 1, 2017 to october 31, 2017 106,900 $ 160.71 106,900 5,230,335 november 1, 2017 to november 30, 2017 140,343 152.12 140,343 5,089,992 december 1, 2017 to december 31, 2017 105,463 158.28 103,900 4,986,092 total 352,706 (2) $ 156.57 351,143 4,986,092 (1) as of december 31, 2017, our board of directors had approved the repurchase of up to 68 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in negotiated transactions pursuant to the company share repurchase program. the program was approved and announced on august 13, 1999, and the maximum number of shares that may be purchased under the program was subsequently increased on each of october 4, 1999, november 16, 1999, july 21, 2000, october 20, 2003, october 12, 2004, october 12, 2005, february 14, 2007, february 13, 2008, february 10, 2010, october 12, 2011, may 7, 2013 , july 16, 2014, and june 15, 2015. effective may 2, 2017, an additional 3 million shares of our common stock was authorized for repurchase, increasing the total shares of common stock authorized to be repurchased by the company up from 65 million to 68 million shares. there is no specified expiration date for this repurchase program. there were no other repurchase programs outstanding during the three months ended december 31, 2017, and no repurchase programs expired during the period. repurchases of 351 ,14 3 shares were made during the three months ended december 31, 2017, in transactions made pursuant to our repurchase program. (2) during the three months ended december 31, 2017, we received 1,563 shares of our common stock that were surrendered by employees in payment for the minimum required withholding taxes due on the vesting of restricted stock units and settlement of deferred stock units. in the above table, these shares are included in columns (a) and (b), but excluded from columns (c) and (d). these shares do not reduce the number of shares that may yet be purchased under the repurchase program. during the year ended december 31, 201 7 , we repurchased 1 ,749,416 shares of our common stock in transactions made pursuant to our repurchase program and received 56 ,638 shares of common stock that were surrendered by employees in payment for the minimum required withholding taxes due on the vesting of restricted stock units and settlement of deferred stock units. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 201 7 , included in this annual report on form 10-k for further information. dividends we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. from time to time our board of directors may consider the declaration of a dividend. however, we have no intention to declare or pay a dividend at this time. 36 stock performance this graph compares our total stockholder returns, the total return for the standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ) 500 index , the total return for the s&amp;p 500 health care index, and the total return for the nasdaq stock market index (u.s. companies) prepared by the center for research in security prices (the nasdaq index ). this graph assumes the investment of $100 on december 31, 201 2 , in idexx common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index, the s&amp;p 500 health care index , and the nasdaq index and assumes dividends, if any, are reinvested. measurement points are the last trading days of the years ended december 201 2 to 201 7 . 12/31/20 12 12/31/20 13 12/31 /20 14 12/3 1 /201 5 12/3 1 / 2016 12/31/ 2017 idexx laboratories, inc. $ 100.00 $ 114.63 $ 159.77 $ 157.16 $ 252.74 $ 337.03 nasdaq index 100.00 140.12 160.78 171.97 187.22 242.71 s&amp;p 500 health care index 100.00 141.46 177.30 189.52 184.42 225.13 s&amp;p 500 index 100.00 132.39 150.51 152.59 170.84 208.14 37 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. the selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. this financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k . on may 6, 2015, we announced a two-for-one split of our outstanding shares of common stock which was effected through a stock dividend that was paid through the issuance of treasury shares on june 15, 2015. all share and per share amounts presented below, for periods prior to june 15, 2015, retroactively reflect the effect of the stock split. for the years ended december 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 income statement data: revenue $ 1,969,058 $ 1,775,423 $ 1,601,892 $ 1,485,807 $ 1,377,058 cost of revenue 871,676 799,987 711,622 669,691 620,940 gross profit 1,097,382 975,436 890,270 816,116 756,118 expenses: sales and marketing 354,294 317,058 299,955 283,708 243,492 general and administrative 220,878 207,017 182,510 173,890 157,861 research and development 109,182 101,122 99,681 98,263 88,003 impairment charge - - 8,212 - - income from operations 413,028 350,239 299,912 260,255 266,762 interest expense, net (31,971) (28,393) (26,771) (13,700) (3,501) income before provision for income taxes 381,057 321,846 273,141 246,555 263,261 provision for income taxes 117,788 99,792 81,006 64,604 75,467 net income 263,269 222,054 192,135 181,951 187,794 less: net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest 125 9 57 45 (6) net income attributable to idexx laboratories, inc. stockholders $ 263,144 $ 222,045 $ 192,078 $ 181,906 $ 187,800 earnings per share: basic $ 3.00 $ 2.47 $ 2.07 $ 1.82 $ 1.77 diluted $ 2.94 $ 2.44 $ 2.05 $ 1.79 $ 1.74 weighted average shares outstanding: basic 87,769 89,732 92,601 100,094 106,318 diluted 89,567 90,884 93,649 101,503 107,970 balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 187,675 $ 154,901 $ 128,994 $ 322,536 $ 279,058 marketable securities (1) 284,255 236,949 213,591 - - cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 471,930 $ 391,850 $ 342,585 $ 322,536 $ 279,058 working capital $ (32,582) $ (88,984) $ (35,127) $ (61,508) $ 174,353 total assets $ 1,713,416 $ 1,530,704 $ 1,474,993 $ 1,384,211 $ 1,230,516 total long-term debt (2) $ 606,075 $ 593,110 $ 597,085 $ 350,000 $ 150,359 total stockholders' equity (deficit) $ (53,842) $ (108,213) $ (83,995) $ 117,589 $ 518,214 (1) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our marketable securities. (2) see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. 38 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this annual report on form 10 k . we have included certain terms and abbreviations used throughout this annual report on form 10-k in the " glossary of terms and selected abbreviations. description of business segments . we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, which we refer to as livestock, poultry and dairy ( lpd ). our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ) with our pharmaceutical product line and our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017, included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including our product and service categories, and our geographic areas. certain costs are not allocated to our operating segments and are instead reported under the caption unallocated amounts . these costs include costs that do not align with one of our existing operating segments or are cost prohibitive to allocate, which primarily consist of our r&amp;d function, regional or country expenses, certain foreign currency revaluation gains and losses on monetary balances in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currency and unusual items. corporate support function costs (such as information technology, facilities, human resources, finance and legal), health benefits and incentive compensation are charged to our business segments at pre-determined budgeted amounts or rates. differences from these pre-determined budgeted amounts or rates are captured within unallocated amounts. the following is a discussion of the strategic and operating factors that we believe have the most significant effect on the performance of our business. companion animal group our strategy is to provide veterinarians with both the highest quality diagnostic information to support more advanced medical care and information manag e ment solutions that help demonstrate the value of diagnostics to pet owners and enable efficient practice management. by d oing so , we are able to build a mutually successful relationship with our veterinarian customers based on healthy pets, loyal customers and expanding practice revenues. cag diagnostics. we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. v eterinarians that utilize our full line of diagnostic modalities obtain a single view of a patient diagnostic results, which allows them to track and evaluate trends and achieve greater medical insight. the breadth and complementary nature of our diagnostic solutions also provides us scale in sales and distribution. to further increase our customer reach, effective january 1, 2015, we transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. and did not renew our annual contracts with our u.s. distribution partners. under this approach, we take orders, ship product, invoice and receive payment for all rapid assay test kits and idexx vetlab consumables in the u.s., aligning with our direct model for instruments, reference laboratory services, and other cag products and services. we believe these changes will continue to strengthen customer loyalty and help support growth of our diagnostic revenues in north america. 39 our diagnostic capabilities generate both recurring and non-recurring revenues. revenues related to capital placements of our in-clinic idexx vetlab suite of instruments and our snap pro mobile device are non-recurring in nature in that they are sold to a particular customer only once. r evenues from the associated propri etary idexx vetlab consumables, snap rapid a ssay test kits, reference laboratory and consulting services, and extended maintenance agreements and accessories related to our idexx vetlab instruments and our snap pro mobile device are recurring in nature , in that they are regularly purchased by our customers, typically as they perform diagnostic testing as part of ongoing veterinary care services. our recurring revenues, most prominently idexx vetlab consumables and rapid assay test kits , have significantly higher gross margins than those provided by our instrument sales. therefore, the mix of recurring and non-recurring revenues in a particular period will impact our gross margins. diagnostic capital revenue. revenues related to the placement of the idexx vetlab suite of instruments are non-recurring in nature, in that the customer will buy an instrument once over its respective product life cycle, but will purchase consumables for that instrument on a recurring basis as they use that instrument for testing purposes. during the early stage of an instrument life cycle, we derive relatively greater revenues from instrument placements, while consumable sales become relatively more significant in later stages as the installed base of instruments increases and instrument placement revenues begin to decline. in the early stage of an instrument life cycle, placements are made primarily through sales transactions. as the market for the product matures, an increasing percentage of placements are made in transactions, sometimes referred to as reagent rentals, in which instruments are placed at customer sites at little or no cost in exchange for a multi-year customer commitment to purchase instrument consumables. prior to the catalyst one instrument launch during november 2014, we pre-sold the instrument under a customer marketing program through which customers preordering a catalyst one were initially provided with the right to use a catalyst dx instrument. under this marketing program, we deferred $7 million of instrument revenue in 2014, which was fully recognized in 2015 upon delivery of the catalyst one instruments or customer election to keep the catalyst dx was received. we place our catalyst chemistry analyzers through sales, leases, rental and other programs. in addition, we continue to place vettest instruments through sales, lease, rental and other programs, with substantially all of our revenues from that product line currently derived from consumabl e sales. as of december 31, 2017, these three chemistry analyzers provided for a combined active installed base of approximately 47,000 units globally, as compared to 43,000 units globally in 2016. approximately 54 percent of 2017 catalyst analyzer placements were to customers that are new to idexx, including customers w ho had been using instruments from one of our competitors, sometimes referred to as competitive accounts. generally , placement of an instrument with a new or competitive account is more attractive as the entire consumable stream associated with that placement represents incremental recurring revenue, whereas the consumable stream associated with a catalyst placement at a vettest customer substitutes a catalyst consumable stream for a vettest consumable stream. we have found that the consumables revenues increase when a customer upgrades from a vettest analyzer to a catalyst analyzer due to the superior test menu capability, flexibility , and ease of use of the catalyst analyzers , which leads to additional testing by the customer. as we continue to experience growth in placements of catalyst analyzers and in sales of related consumables, we expect this growth to be partly offset by a decline in placements of vettest analyzers and in sales of related consumables. the procyte dx analyzer is our latest generation hematology analyzer . in addition, we sell the lasercyte dx and vetautoread an alyzers. as of december 31, 201 7, these hematology analyzers provided for a combined active installed base of approximately 3 3 , 4 00 units, as compared to 31,000 units in 2016 and 29,000 units in 2015. a substantial portion of procyte dx analyzer placements continue to be made at veterinary clinics that elect to upgrade from their lasercyte dx analyzer to a procyte dx analyzer. in 201 7 , approximately 60 percent of procyte placements were made at competitive accounts. we also continue to place a subs tantial number of lasercyte dx instruments, both new and recertified, as trade-ups from the vetautoread analyzer and at new and competitive accounts. as we continue to experience growth in placements of procyte dx analyzers and in sales of related consumables, we expect this growth to be partly offset by a decline in placements of lasercyte dx and vetautoread analyzers and a decrease in the associated recurring revenue stream . 40 our sedivue dx instrument was launched in north america early in 2016 and in the u.k. and australia in the fourth quarter of 2016. during 2017, we continued to launch sedivue dx internationally. sedivue dx is the first veterinary in-clinic analyzer to provide urine sediment analysis. this instrument and single-use consumable system provides a highly accurate way to automate the in-house process of examining urine under a microscope. we provide customers with sedivue dx consumables that are charged upon utilization, which we refer to as pay-per-run, as compared to other instruments where we charge upon shipment of consumables. we seek to enhance the attractiveness and customer loyalty of our snap rapid assay tests , by providing the snap pro mobile device, which activates snap tests, properly times the run, captures , and saves images of the results and , in conjunction with ivls, records invoice charges in the patient record. beginning in january of 2017, with our proread software, the snap pro mobile device interprets results. th ese features promote practice efficiency by eliminating manual entry of test results in patient records and also helps ensure that the services are recorded and accurately invoiced. in addition, snap pro mobile device results can be shared with pet owners on th e snap pro screen or , in conjunction with ivls, via vetconnect plus. we also sell the snapshot dx, which automatically reads certain snap test results and , in conjunction with ivls, records those results in the electronic medical record. we continue to work on enhancing the functionality of our analyzers to read the results of additional tests from our canine and feline family of rapid assay products. our long-term success in the continuing growth of our cag recurring diagnostic product and services is dependent upon new customer acquisition, customer loyalty and retention of their recurring revenues, our ability to realize price increases based on our differentiated products and customer utilization of existing and new assays introduced for use on our analyzers. we continuously seek opportunities to enhance the care that veterinary professionals give to their patients and clients through supporting the implementation of real-time care testing work flows, which is performing tests and sharing test results with the client at the time of the patient visit. our latest generation of chemistry and hematology instruments demonstrates this commitment by offering enhanced ease of use, faster time to results , broader test menu and connectivity to various information technology platforms that enhance the value of the diagnostic information generated by the instruments. in addition, we provide marketing tools and customer support that help drive efficiencies in veterinary practice processes and allow practices to increase the number of clients they see on a daily basis. with all of our instrument product lines, we seek to differentiate our products from our competitors products based on time-to-result, ease-of-use, throughput, breadth of diagnostic menu, flexibility of menu selection, accuracy, reliability, ability to handle compromised samples, analytical capability of software, integration with the idexx vetlab station and vetconnect plus , client communications capabilities, education and training, and superior sales and customer service. our success depends, in part, on our ability to differentiate our products in a way that justifies a premium price. recurring diagnostic revenue. revenues from our proprietary idexx vetlab consumable products, our snap rapid assay test kits, outside reference laboratory and consulting services, and extended maintenance agreements and accessories related to our cag diagnostics instruments are considered recurring in nature. for the year ended december 31, 2017, recurring diagnostic revenue, which is both highly durable and profita ble, accounted for approximately 74 pe rcent of our consolidated revenue. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions, consisting of our idexx vetlab consumable products and snap rapid assay test kits, provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions . our outside reference laboratories provide veterinarians with the benefits of a more comprehensive list of diagnostic tests and access to consultations with board-certified veterinary specialists and pathologists, combined with the benefit of same-day or next-day turnaround times. we derive substantial revenues and margins from the sale of consumables that are used in idexx vetlab instruments and the multi-year consumable revenue stream is significantly more valuable than the placement of the instrument . our strategy is to increase diagnostic testing within veterinary practices by placing idexx vetlab instruments and increasing instrument utilization of consumables. utilization can increase due to a greater number of patient samples being run or to an increase in the number of tests being run per patient sample. our strategy is to increase both drivers. to increase utilization, we seek to educate veterinarians about best medical practices that emphasize the importance of chemistry, hematology and urinalysis testing for a variety of diagnostic purposes , as well as by introducing new testing capabilities that were previously not available to veterinarians . additionally, we 41 have found that veterinarian adoption of vetconnect plus drives utilization by spurring testing across all idexx diagnostic modalities. in connection with the purchase of instruments, we also offer protocol-based rebate incentives when customers utilize the broad testing functionality of our analyzers. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include snap rapid assay tests that address important medical needs for particular diseases prevalent in the companion animal population. we seek to differentiate these tests from those of other in-clinic test providers and reference laboratory diagnostic service providers based on critically important sensitivity and specificity, as well as overall superior performance and ease of use by providing our customers with combination tests that test a single sample for up to six diseases at once , including the ability to utilize our snap pro mobile device . we further augment our product development and customer service efforts with sales and marketing programs that enhance medical awareness and understanding regarding certain diseases and the importance of diagnostic testing. the expiration of a third party u.s. lateral flow patent in early 2015 enabled competitors to launch single use tests that competed with several of our early generation snap rapid assay products, including heartworm rt, fiv/felv combo test, feline triple, parvo , and giardia. these companies partnered with several of our former national distributors to gain market share by competing primarily on price. in the second half of 2015, we stabilized our market share on these products in part by communicating the significant superiority in test sensitivity for both our canine and feline lines over competing tests using the lateral flow platform, and in part with more effective marketing and promotion programs. our higher sensitivity in the detection of infectious diseases is due in part to our snap platform, which is unique in using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) technology . test accuracy through specificity and sensitivity is a primary factor that customers value with these in-house tests, given the importance of detecting the presence of serious infectious diseases in the practice. we believe approximately half of all diagnostic testing by u.s. veterinarians is provided by outside reference laboratories such as idexx reference laboratories. in several markets outside the u.s., in-clinic testing is less prevalent and an even greater percentage of diagnostic testing is done in reference laboratories. we attempt to differentiate our reference laboratory testing services from those of competitive reference laboratories and competitive in-clinic offerings primarily on the basis of a unique and proprietary test menu, technology employed, quality, turnaround time, customer service and tools such as vetconnect plus that demonstrate the complementary manner in which our laboratory services work with our in-clinic offerings. profitability in our lab business is supported, in part, by our expanding business scale globally. profit improvements also reflect benefits from price increases and our ability to achieve efficiencies . when possible, we utilize core reference laboratories to service samples from other states or countries, expanding our customer reach without an associated expansion in our reference laboratory footprint. new laboratories that we open typically will operate at a loss until testing volumes achieve sufficient scale. acquired laboratories frequently operate less profitably than our existing laboratories and acquired laboratories may not achieve the profitability of our existing laboratory network for several years until we complete the implementation of operating improvements and efficiencies. therefore, in the short term, new and acquired reference laboratories generally will have a negative effect on our operating margin. recurring reference lab revenue growth is achieved both through increased sales to existing customers and through the acquisition of new customers. we believe the increased number of customer visits by our sales professionals as a result of the implementation of our all-direct sales strategy in the u.s. and the subsequent growth in our field sales organization has led to increased reference laboratory opportunities with customers who already use one of our in-clinic diagnostic modalities. in recent years, re curring reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting revenues have also been increased through reference laboratory acquisitions, customer list acquisitions, the opening of new reference laboratories, including laboratories that are co-located with large practice customers, and as a result of our up-front customer loyalty programs. our up-front customer loyalty programs associated with customer acquisitions and retention provide incentives to customers in the form of cash payments or idexx points upon entering multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of pr oducts or services, including reference laboratory services. health monitoring and biological materials testing . we believe the acquisition of the research and diagnostic laboratory business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri has allowed us to leverage our expertise in veterinary diagnostics and expand our integrated offering of reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services and in-clinic testing solutions in the adjacent bioresearch market. 42 veterinary software, services and di agnostic imaging systems . our portfolio of practice management offerings is designed to serve the full range of customers within the north american, australian, and european markets. cornerstone, dvmax, animana and idexx neo practice management systems provide superior integrated information solutions, backed by exceptional customer support and education. these practice management systems allow the veterinarian to practice better medicine and achieve the practice business objectives, including a quality client experience, staff efficiency and practice profitability. we market cornerstone, dvmax and idexx neo practice management systems to customers primarily in north america and australia. we market our animana offering to customers primarily throughout europe. animana and idexx neo practice management systems are subscription-based saas offerings designed to provide flexible pricing and a durable, recurring revenue stream, while utilizing cloud technology instead of a client server platform. while we continue to develop, sell , and support our licensed-based cornerstone and dvmax software, we are growing our installed base of subscription-based practice management offerings for new customers of idexx practice management systems. we believe that once established, this subscription-based model will provide higher profitability as compared to the historical license-based placements. our cornerstone and dvmax customer base continues to be an important driver of growth through enhanced diagnostic integrations and high value add-on subscription services, such as pet health network pro, petly plans, and credit card processing, and we continue to make investments to enhance the customer experience of all of our license-based software offerings. we also offer rvetlink, a comprehensive referral management solution for specialty care hospitals that streamlines the referral process between primary care and specialty care veterinarians. rvetlink cloud technology integrates with major specialty hospital management systems, including cornerstone software and dvmax software. we differentiate our practice management systems through enhanced functionality, ease of use and connectivity with in-clinic idexx vetlab instruments and outside reference laboratory test results. our client communication services create more meaningful pet owner experiences through personalized communication. pet health network pro online client communication and education service complements the entire idexx product offering by educating pet owners and building loyalty through engaging the pet owner before, during and after the visit, thereby building client loyalty and driving more patient visits. our diagnostic imaging systems offer a convenient radiographic solution that provides superior image quality and the ability to share images with clients virtually anywhere . idexx imaging software enables enhanced diagnostic features and streamlined integration with our other products and services. our newest digital radiography systems, t he imagevue dr50 digital imaging system enable low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality diagnostic images, reduc ing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. placements of imaging systems are important to the growth of revenue streams that are recurring in nature, including extended maintenance agreements and idexx web pacs, which is our cloud-based saas offering for viewing, accessing, storing , and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. we derive relatively higher mar gins from our subscription-based product s. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, idexx neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. 43 water our strategy in the water testing business is to develop, manufacture, market and sell proprietary products that test primarily for the presence of microbial contamination in water matrices, including drinking water supplies, with superior performance, supported by exceptional customer service. our customers primarily consist of water utilities, government laboratories and private certified laboratories that highly v alue strong relationships and customer support. we expect that future growth in this business will be significantly dependent on our ability to increase international sales. growth also will be dependent on our ability to enhance and broaden our product line. most water microbiological testing is driven by regulation, and, in many countries, a test may not be used for compliance testing unless it has been approved by the applicable regulatory body and integrated into customers testing protocols . as a result, we maintain an active regulatory program that involves applying for a growing number of regulatory approvals in a number of countries, primarily in europe. further, we seek to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies as a means to differentiate our products from the competition. livestock, poultry and dairy we develop, manufacture, market and sell a broad range of tests and perform services for various livestock diseases and conditions, and have active research and development and in-licensing programs in this area. our strategy is to offer proprietary tests with superior performance characteristics for use in government programs to control or eradicate disease and disease outbreaks and in livestock and poultry producers disease , reproductive , and herd health and production management programs. disease outbreaks are episodic and unpredictable, and certain diseases that are prevalent at one time may be substantially contained or eradicated at a later time. in response to outbreaks, testing initiatives may lead to exceptional demand for certain products in certain periods. conversely, successful eradication programs may result in significantly decreased demand for certain products. in addition, increases in government funding may lead to increased demand for certain products and budgetary constraints may lead to decreased demand for certain products. as result, the performance in certain sectors of this business can fluctuate. our strategy in the dairy testing business is to develop, manufacture and sell antibiotic residue and contaminant testing products that satisfy applicable regulatory requirements or dairy processor standards for testing of milk and provide reliable field performance. the manufacture of these testing products leverages the snap platform and production assets that also support our rapid assay business, which also leverages the snap platform. the dairy snap products, incorpor ate customized reagents for antibiotic and contaminant detection. to successfully increase sales of dairy testing products, we believe that we need to increase penet ration in dairy processor and develop product line enhancements and extensions . our rapid visual pregnancy test for cattle can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding. this test provides a quick and accurate identifier using whole blood samples. the performance of the business is particularly subject to the various risks that are associated with doing business internationally . see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 44 other opti medical . our strategy in the opti medical business for the human market is to develop, manufacture, and sell electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumable products for the medical point-of-care diagnostics market worldwide, with a focus on small to mid-sized hospitals. w e seek to differentiate our products based on ease of use, convenience, international distribution and service and instrument reliability. similar to our veterinary instruments and consumables strategy, a substantial portion of the revenues from this product line is derived from the sale of consumables for use on the installed base of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. during the early stage of an instrument life cycle, relatively greater revenues are derived from instrument placements, while consumable sales become relatively more significant in later stages as the installed base of instruments increases and instrument placement revenues begin to decline. our long-term success in this area of our business is dependent upon new customer acquisition, customer retention and increased customer utilization of existing and new assays introduced on these instruments. our facility in roswell, georgia develops and manufactures the opti product lines using the same or similar technology to support the electrolyte needs of the veterinary market . we leverage t his facility know-how, intellectual property , and manufacturing capability to continue to expand the menu and instrument capability of the vetstat and catalyst platforms for veterinary applications while reducing our cost of consumables by leveraging experience and economies of scale. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed the opti medical product offerings. as a result of this review, in march 2016 we discontinued certain development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market that were devoted to a new platform and focused our efforts on supporting our current generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. the performance of the business is particularly subject to the various risks that are associated with doing business internationally . see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 45 critical accounting policies and estimates the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap . the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we evaluate our estimates o n an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates. note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of these consolidated financial statements. we believe the following critical accounting estimates and assumptions may have a material impact on reported financial condition and operating performance and involve significant levels of judgment to account for highly uncertain matters or are susceptible to significant change. revenue recognition we recognize revenue when four criteria are m et: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. see note 2(j ) to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017, included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our revenue recognition policy and criteria for recognizing revenue. multiple element arrangements ( meas ) . arrangements to sell products to customers frequently include multiple deliverables. our most significant meas include the sale of one or more of the instruments from the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers, diagnostic imaging systems or practice management software , combined with one or more of the following products: extended maintenance agreements ( emas ), consumables, rapid assay kits and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services. practice management software is frequently sold with post-contract customer support and implementation services. delivery of the various products or performance of services within the arrangement may or may not coincide. delivery of our idexx vetlab instruments, diagnostic imaging systems and practice management software generally occurs at the onset of the arrangement. emas, consumables, rapid assay kits, and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services typically are delivered over future periods, generally one to six years. in certain arrangements, revenue recognized is limited to the amount invoiced or received that is not contingent on the delivery of products and services in the future. we allocate revenue to each element based on the relative selling price and recognize revenue when the elements have standalone value and the four criteria for revenue recognition, as discussed above, have been met for each element. if available, we establish the selling price of each element based on vendor-specific objective evidence ( vsoe ), which represents the price charged for a deliverable when it is sold separately. we use third-party evidence ( tpe ) if vsoe is not available, or best estimate of selling price if neither vsoe nor tpe is available. when these arrangements include a separately-priced ema, we recognize revenue related to the ema at the stated contractual price on a straight-line basis over the life of the agreement to the extent the separately stated price is substantive. if there is no stated contractual price for an ema, or the separately stated price is not substantive, we allocate revenue to each element based on the relative selling price and recognize revenue when the elements have standalone value and the four criteria for revenue recognition, as discussed above, have been met for each element . 46 when arrangements within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance include multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element based on relative fair value, when vsoe exists for all elements, or by using the residual method when there is vsoe for the undelivered elements but no such evidence for the delivered elements. under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the residual revenue is allocated to the delivered elements. revenue is recognized on any delivered elements when the four criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. if vsoe does not exist for the undelivered element, all revenue from the arrangement is deferred until the earlier of the point at which such sufficient vsoe does exist or all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. we determine fair value based on amounts charged separately for the delivered and undelivered elements to similar customers in standalone sales of the specific elements. certain arrangements with customers include discounts on future sales of products and services. we apply judgment in determining whether future discounts are significant and incremental. when the future discount offered is not considered significant and incremental, we do not account for the discount as an element of the original arrangement. if the future discount is significant and incremental, we recognize that discount as an element of the original arrangement and allocate the discount to the other elements of the arrangement based on relative selling price. to determine whether a discount is significant and incremental, we look to the discount provided in comparison to standalone sales of the same product or service to similar customers, the level of discount provided on other elements in the arrangement and the significance of the discount to the overall arrangement. if the discount in the mea approximates the discount typically provided in standalone sales, that discount is not considered incremental. customer programs . we record reductions to revenue related to customer marketing and incentive programs, which include end-user rebates and other volume-based incentives. incentives may be provided in the form of idexx points, credits or cash and are earned by end users upon achieving defined volume purchases or utilization levels or upon entering an agreement to purchase products or services in future periods. the summary of revenue reductions presented in the tables below reflects all revenue reductions recorded for the year for each particular program. these amounts are presented on a net basis when applicable, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned for the relevant customer marketing or incentive program. these differences have been insignificant in all quarterly or annual periods. our most significant customer programs are categorized as follows: customer loyalty programs . our customer loyalty programs offer customers the opportunity to earn incentives on a variety of idexx products and services as those products and services are purchased and utilized. revenue reductions related to customer loyalty programs are recorded based on the actual issuance of incentives, incentives earned but not yet issued and estimates of incentives to be earned in the future. up-front customer loyalty programs . our up-front loyalty programs provide incentives to customers in the form of cash payments or idexx points upon entering multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of future products or services. we predominately offer up-front loyalty incentives in response to competitive offerings. if a customer breaches its agreement, they are required to refund all or a portion of the up-front cash or idexx points, or make other repayments, remedial actions, or both. these incentives are considered to be customer acquisition costs and are capitalized within other current assets and other long-term assets and are subsequently recognized as a reduction to revenue over the term of the customer agreement. if these up-front incentives are subsequently utilized to purchase idexx vetlab instruments, diagnostic imaging systems or cornerstone practice management systems, product revenue and cost is deferred and recognized over the term of the customer agreement as products and services are provided to the customer. we monitor customer purchases over the term of their agreement to assess the realizability of our capitalized customer acquisition costs. for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, impairments of customer acquisition costs were immaterial. 47 idexx instrument marketing programs . our instrument marketing programs require the customer to enroll at the time of instrument purchase and offer customers the opportunity to earn incentives in future periods based on the volume of the products they purchase and utilize over the term of the program. these arrangements are considered meas in accordance with our revenue recognition policy stated above. revenue reductions related to instrument marketing programs are recorded based on an estimate of customer purchase and utilization levels and the incentive the customer will earn over the term of the program. our estimates are based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of the marketing program, requiring us to apply judgment to estimate future product purchases and utilization. differences between our estimates and actual incentives earned are accounted for as a change in estimate. these differences were not material for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. at december 31, 2017, a 5 percent change in our estimate of future customer utilization would increase or reduce revenue by approximately $0.4 million. reagent rental programs . our reagent rental programs provide customers the right to use our instruments in consideration for multi-year agreements to purchase annual minimum amounts of consumables. no instrument revenue is recognized at the time of instrument installation. we recognize a portion of the revenue allocated to the instrument concurrent with the future sale of consumables. we determine the amount of revenue allocated from the consumable to the instrument based on relative selling prices and determine the rate of instrument revenue recognition in proportion to the customer minimum volume commitment. the cost of the instrument is capitalized within property and equipment or deferred within other assets, and is charged to the cost of product revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the minimum purchase agreement. idexx points are considered the same as cash and may be applied against the purchase price of idexx products and services or applied to trade receivables due to us. idexx points that have not yet been used by customers are classified as a liability until use or expiration occurs. we estimate the amount of idexx points expected to expire, or breakage, based on historical expirations and we recognize the estimated benefit of breakage in proportion to actual redemptions of idexx points by customers. on november 30 of each year, unused idexx points earned before january 1 of the prior year generally expire and any variance from the breakage estimate is accounted for as a change in estimate. this variance was not material for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. future market conditions and changes in product offerings may cause us to change marketing strategies to increase or decrease customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in incremental reductions of revenue in future periods as compared to reductions in the current or prior periods. additionally, certain customer programs require us to estimate, based on historical experience, and apply judgment to predict the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. in determining estimated revenue reductions, we utilize data collected directly from end users, which includes the volume of qualifying products purchased and the number of qualifying tests run as reported to us by end users via idexx smartservice . differences between estimated and actual customer participation in programs may impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition. 48 following is a summary of revenue reductions, net recorded in connection with our customer programs for the years ended december 31, 201 7 , 201 6 and 201 5 ( in thousands ): for the years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 revenue reductions recorded, net customer loyalty programs, net (1) $ 22,106 $ 18,226 $ 16,742 up-front customer loyalty programs 28,881 24,595 19,972 idexx instrument marketing programs, net (1) 43,939 37,012 31,112 other customer programs, net (1) 384 417 664 total revenue reductions, net $ 95,310 $ 80,250 $ 68,490 (1) revenue reduction is provided on a net basis, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned. accrued customer programs are included within accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities, depending on the anticipated settlement date, in the consolidated balance sheets included in this annual report on form 10-k. following is a summary of changes in the accrual for estimated revenue reductions attributable to customer programs and the ending accrued customer programs balance for t he years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 ( in thousands ) : for the years ended december 31, 2017 2016 accrued customer programs: balance, beginning of the year $ 59,432 $ 55,133 revenue reductions for customer loyalty programs, net (1) 22,106 18,227 up-front customer loyalty program awards issued as idexx points 50,902 31,407 revenue reductions for idexx instrument marketing programs, net (1) 43,939 37,011 revenue reductions for other customer programs, net (1) 384 417 idexx points redeemed and credits issued (107,867) (81,733) breakage (471) (722) exchange impact on balances denominated in foreign currency 1,186 (308) balance, end of the year $ 69,611 $ 59,432 (1) revenue reduction is provided on a net basis, which accounts for any differences between estimates and actual incentives earned. new revenue standard . we will adopt asu 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606) (the new revenue standard ) in the first quarter of 2018 on a modified-retrospective basis. asu 2014-09 will replace most of the existing revenue recognition guidance within u.s. gaap. see note 2(x) to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017, included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about asu 2014-09 . while asu 2014-09 will not impact the overall economics of our products and services sold under customer marketing and incentive programs, we expect the new revenue standard will require us to accelerate revenue recognition related to certain of our customer programs and to delay revenue recognition for certain other customer programs. we expect to accelerate revenue recognition on instruments and systems placed through programs where customers are committed to purchase future goods and services, including our up-front customer loyalty and volume commitment programs. this change is the result of the new revenue standard no longer limiting revenue recognition to the amount of customer consideration received upon placement. conversely, we expect to defer an increased portion of revenue related to instrument placements under programs that provide rebate incentives on future purchases, including certain of our idexx instrument marketing programs. under the new revenue standard, future purchases that are optional and not subject to a customer commitment, are not considered part of the customer arrangement, resulting in the instrument absorbing a higher relative allocation of rebate incentives. we expect this change to result in lower instrument revenue upon placement and higher recurring revenues over the term of the rebate incentive program. we believe these will be the most significant impacts related to our adoption of the new revenue standard and we estimate a net increase in revenue of approximately $10 million for the year ending december 31, 2018, in connection with such adoption. the estimated net increase in revenue is the result of anticipated earlier recognition on 2018 activity, which is expected to be partially offset by the net impact of the modified-retrospective cumulative adjustments on 2018. these impacts are expected to increase cag diagnostics recurring revenues related to the modified-retrospective cumulative adjustments, which is expected to be partially offset by a net decrease in both cag diagnostics capital instrument revenue and veterinary software, services and imaging systems revenue. this assessment is based on the anticipated volume, mix and 49 design of our customer marketing and incentive programs, which may change in response to future customer and competitive demands. furthermore, the new revenue standard requires the deferral of incremental costs to obtain a customer contract over the term of the customer arrangement, such as sales commissions. based on the current design of our sales commission plans, the impact of implementing this element of the new revenue standard is not expected to be material to our results for the year ending december 31, 2018. inventory valuation we write down the carrying value of inventory for estimated obsolescence by an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value when warranted based on assumptions of future demand, market conditions, remaining shelf life or product functionality. if actual market conditions or results of estimated functionality are less favorable than those we estimated, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which would have a negative effect on results of operations. valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets a significant portion of the purchase price for acquired businesses is generally assigned to intangible assets. intangible assets other than goodwill are initially valued at fair value. if a quoted price in an active market for the identical asset is not readily available at the measurement date, the fair value of the intangible asset is estimated based on discounted cash flows using market participant assumptions, which are assumptions that are not specific to idexx. the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies and the estimation of discounted cash flows require significant assumptions about the timing and amounts of future cash flows, risks, appropriate discount rates, and the useful lives of intangible assets. when material, we utilize independent valuation experts to advise and assist us in determining the fair values of the identified intangible assets acquired in connection with a business acquisition and in determining appropriate amortization methods and periods for those intangible assets. goodwill is initially valued based on the excess of the purchase price of a business combination over the fair value of acquired net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. we assess goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit level, in the fourth quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. an impairment charge is recorded for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. our reporting units are the individual product and service categories that comprise our cag operating segment, our water and lpd operating segments and goodwill remaining from the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business in the fourth quarter of 2008. a substantial portion of the goodwill remaining from the pharmaceutical business, included in our other segment , is associated with intellectual property that has been, or that we expect to be, licensed to third parties. realization of this goodwill is dependent upon the success of those third parties in developing and commercializing products, which will result in our receipt of royalties and other payments. in evaluating goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goo dwill impairment test. the more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we would then perform step one of the two-step impairment test; otherwise, no further impairment test would be required. in contrast, we can opt to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to step one of the two-step impairment test. doing so does not preclude us from performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. as part of our goodwill testing process, we evaluate factors specific to a reporting unit as well as industry and macroeconomic factors that are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the fair value of a reporting unit. examples of the factors considered in assessing the fair value of a reporting unit include: the results of the most recent impairment test, the competitive environment, the regulatory environment, anticipated changes in product or labor costs, revenue growth trends, the consistency of operating margins and cash flows and current and long-range financial forecasts. the long-range financial forecasts of the reporting units, which are based upon management long-term view of our markets, are used by senior management and the board of directors to evaluate operating performance. 50 in the fourth quarters of 2017 and 2016, we elected to bypass the qualitative approach and instead proceeded directly to step one of the two-step impairment test to assess the fair value of all of our reporting units. as part of step one of the two-step impairment test, we estimate the fair values of applicable reporting units using an income approach based on discounted forecasted cash flows. we make significant assumptions about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. model assumptions are based on our projections and best estimates, using appropriate and customary market participant assumptions. in addition, we make certain assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units in determining the carrying value of each reporting unit. to validate the reasonableness of our reporting units' estimated fair values, we reconcile the aggregate fair values of our reporting units to our total market capitalization . valuation assumptions reflect our projections and best estimates, based on significant assumptions about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. we maintain approximately $6.5 million of goodwill associated with our remaining pharmaceutical intellectual property , out-licensing arrangements , and certain retained drug delivery technologies (collectively pharmaceutical activities ) that we seek to commercialize through arrangements with third parties. currently, our primary support for the carrying value of this goodwill is royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property . there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues from our remaining pharmaceutical activities. the results of our goodwill impairment test for these pharmaceutical activities indicate an excess of estimated fair value over the carrying amount of this reporting unit by approximately $ 3.1 million and 47 percent of the reporting unit carrying value. excluding these pharmaceutical activities, the results of our goodwill impairment test indicate an excess of estimated fair value over the carrying amount for each of our reporting units with a minimum of 150 percent and an average of approximately 550 percent . while we believe that the assumptions used to determine the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units are reasonable, a change in assumptions underlying these estimates could result in a material negative effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting units. our fair value estimate assumes the achievement of future financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. we use forecasts to estimate future cash flows and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most recent views of the long-term outlooks for our reporting units. actual results may differ from those assumed in our forecasts. the discount rate is based on a weighted average cost of capital derived from industry peers. changes in market conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing , or the discount rate would affect the estimated fair values of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. no goodwill impairments were identified during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 or 2015. a prolonged economic downturn in the u.s. or internationally resulting in lower long-term growth rates and reduced long-term profitability may reduce the fair value of our reporting units. industry specific events or circumstances could have a negative impact on our reporting units and may also reduce the fair value of our reporting units. should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not that a reporting unit fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will perform an interim goodwill impairment test, in addition to the annual impairment test. future impairment tests may result in an impairment of goodwill, depending on the outcome of future impairment tests. an impairment of goodwill would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings. we assess the realizability of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. if an impairment review is triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of intangible assets based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary asset of the asset group and compare that value to the carrying value of the asset group. the cash flows that are used contain our best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time. if the net carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment to adjust the intangible asset to its fair value would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings. if necessary, we would calculate the fair value of an intangible asset using the present value of the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the intangible asset and applying a risk-adjusted discount rate. 51 we had no impairments of our intangible assets during the year ended december 31, 2017. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed our opti medical product offering, which resulted in the discontinuance of our instrument development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and a decision to focus our commercial and development efforts to support our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. management identified unfavorable trends in our opti medical business resulting from this change in strategy. we revised our forecasts downward, causing us to assess the realizability of the related tangible and intangible assets and determined the expected future cash flows were less than the carrying value of the opti medical asset group. non-cash intangible asset impairments of $2.2 million were recognized during the six months ended june 30, 2016. the intangibles associated with our opti medical human point-of-care medical diagnostics market are fully written off. intangible assets impairments during the year ended december 31, 2015 were not material. our business combinations regularly include contingent consideration arrangements that require additional consideration to be paid based on the achievement of established objectives, most commonly related to the retention or growth of the customer base during the post-combination period. we assess contingent consideration to determine if it is part of the business combination or if it should be accounted for separately from the business combination in the post-combination period. contingent consideration is recognized at its fair value on the acquisition date. a liability resulting from contingent consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date until the contingency is resolved, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. changes in fair value of contingent consideration and differences arising upon settlement were not material during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding contingent consideration arising from business acquisitions. share-based compensation effective january 1, 2017, we adopted the fasb accounting standard update ( asu ) 2016-09, compensation-stock compensation (topic 718): improvements to employee share-based payment accounting which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, recognition of stock compensation award forfeitures, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, the calculation of diluted shares outstanding and classification on the statement of cash flows. the tax benefits related to share-based payments reduced income tax expense by approximately $28 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, primarily through a reduction in our effective income tax rate. we do not estimate that the level of share-based payment activity in 2017 will continue in future periods. we believe that the historical range of $11 million to $14 million of annual tax benefits reflects a reasonable estimate for 2018, based on current settlement trends and stock price levels. these impacts may vary significantly based on the timing of actual settlement activity. for more information regarding the adoption of the new share-based compensation guidance, asu 2016-09, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. our share-based compensation programs provide for grants of stock options, restricted stock units and deferred stock units, along with the issuance of employee stock purchase rights. the total fair value of future awards may vary significantly from past awards based on a number of factors, including our share-based award practices. therefore, share-based compensation expense is likely to fluctuate, possibly significantly, from year to year. 52 we use the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to determine the fair value of options granted. option-pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, particularly for the expected stock price volatility and the expected term of options. the risk-free interest rate is based on the u.s. treasury yield for a duration similar to the expected term at the date of grant. we have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we have no intention to pay a dividend at this time; therefore , we assume that no dividends will be paid over the expected terms of option awards. we determine the assumptions to be used in the valuation of option grants as of the date of grant. as such, we use different assumptions during the year if we grant options at different dates. substantially all our options granted during t he years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were granted in the first quarter of each year. the weighted average of each of the valuation assumptions used to determine the fair value of each option grant during each of the previous three years is as follows: for the years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 expected stock price volatility 26 % 25 % 23 % expected term, in years (1) 5.8 5.7 5.6 risk-free interest rate 2.0 % 1.2 % 1.5 % (1) o ptions granted have a contractual term of ten years. changes in the se subjective assumptions, particularly for the expected stock price volatility and the expected term of options, can materially affect the fair value estimate. our expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of our stock over a period similar to the expected term and other relevant factors. higher estimated volatility increases the fair value of a stock option, while lower estimated volatility has the opposite effect. the total fair value of stock options granted during the year ended december 31, 201 7, was $15.7 million. if the weighted average of the stock price volatility assumption was increased or decreased by 1 percent , the total fair value of stock options awarded during the year ended december 31, 201 7, would have increased or decreased by approximately $ 0.5 million and the total expense recognized for the year ended december 31, 201 7, for options awarded during the same period would have increased or decreased by less than $ 0.1 million. we derive the expected term assumption for stock options based on historical experience and other relevant factors concerning expected behavior with regard to option exercises. the expected term is determined using a consistent method at each grant date. a longer expected term assumption increases the fair value of stock option awards, while a shorter expected term assumption has the opposite effect. if the weighted average of the expected term was increased or decreased by one year, the total fair value of stock options awarded during the year ended december 31, 201 7, would have increased or decreased by approximately $ 1.5 million , and the total expense recognized for the year ended december 31, 201 7, for options awarded during 201 7 would have incre ased or decreased by approximately $0.3 million . for a significant majority of our awards, hare-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period , which ranges from one to five years , depending on the award. share-based compensation expense is recognized on a grade-vesting methodology for performance-based restricted stock units. share-based compensation expense is based on the number of awards expected to vest and is, therefore, reduced for an estimate of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. the forfeiture estimates are based on historical data and other factors; share-based compensation expense is adjusted annually for actual results. total share-based compensation expense for the year ended december 31, 201 7, was $ 23.5 million, which is net of a reduction of approximately $ 2 .2 million for actual and estimated forfeitures. fluctuations in our overall employee turnover rate may result in changes in estimated forfeiture rates and differences between estimated forfeiture rates and actual experience and, therefore could have a significant unanticipated impact on share-based compensation expense. modifications of the terms of outstanding awards may result in significant increases or decreases in share-based compensation . there were no material modifications to the terms of outstanding options, restricted stock units or deferred stock units during 2017, 2016 or 2015. 53 the fair value of stock options, restricted stock units, deferred stock units and employee stock purchase rights issued totaled $31.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , $2 7.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, and $ 25.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . the total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, for unvested share-based compensation awards outstanding at december 31, 201 7, was $45.2 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.6 years. income taxes the tax act was enacted on december 22, 2017, and includes significant changes to the u.s. corporate tax system. effective january 1, 2018, the tax act reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, and transitioned from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, and eliminated or reduced certain domestic deductions among other changes. the tax act introduced new provisions including the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat ), expanded bonus depreciation and changed deductions for executive compensation and interest expense. we continue to assess the impact of the new provisions which become effective beginning in 2018. see note 12 income taxes, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the impact of the tax act. we estimate our future effective tax rate will be reduced as a result of the corporate tax rate reduction and the new provisions provided in the tax act. the outlook for our 2018 effective tax rate is 20 - 21 percent, which includes the estimated impact of the tax act. the provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. under this approach, deferred taxes represent the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between book and tax treatment of assets and liabilities and carryforwards to the extent they are realizable. on a quarterly basis, we assess our current and projected earnings by jurisdiction to determine whether or not our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future tax benefits. should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in a particular jurisdiction in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. a reduction of net income before taxes in each subsidiary equal to 5 percent of revenue, compared to the corresponding reported amounts for the year ended december 31, 2017, would not result in the recognition of material incremental valuation allowances. for those jurisdictions where tax carryforwards are likely to expire unused or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not more likely than not, a valuation allowance is recorded to offset the deferred tax asset within that jurisdiction. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. in the event that we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, a reduction of the valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, a reduction to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. our net taxable temporary differences and tax carryforwards are recorded using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or realized. should the expected applicable tax rates change in the future, an adjustment to our deferred taxes would be credited or charged, as appropriate, to income in the period such determination was made. to illustrate the impact, the reduction in the u.s. federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent from the passage of the tax act resulted in a reduction to our net deferred tax liability of approximately $17 million. this decrease in the deferred tax liability increased our net income in the fourth quarter of 2017. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. 54 as a result of the tax act we are no longer asserting indefinite reversal under asc 740-30-25 for undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries earned prior to december 31, 2017. we have recorded a provisional amount of $48.8 million for the deemed repatriation tax liability related to these earnings. for operating earnings generated after december 31, 2017, we are still analyzing the effects of the change in position as allowed under u.s. gaap. we record a liability for uncertain tax positions that do not meet the more likely than not standard as prescribed by the authoritative guidance for income tax accounting. we record tax benefits for only those positions that we believe will more likely than not be sustained. for positions that we believe that it is more likely than not that we will prevail, we record a benefit considering the amounts and probabilities that could be realized upon ultimate settlement. if our judgment as to the likely resolution of the uncertainty changes, if the uncertainty is ultimately settled or if the statute of limitation related to the uncertainty expires, the effects of the change would be recognized in the period in which the change, resolution or expiration occurs. our net liability for uncertain tax positions was $21.8 million as of december 31, 2017, and $18.8 million as of december 31, 2016, which includes estimated interest expense and penalties. see note 12 income taxes, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. recent accounting pronouncements in addition to the impacts from new accounting pronouncements included above, see note 2 (w) and (x) to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017, included in this annual report on form 10-k for a complete discussion of recent accounting pronouncement adopted and not adopted . 55 results of operations and trends effects of certain factors on results of operations distributor purchasing and inventories . when selling our products through distributors, changes in distributors inventory levels can impact our reported sales, and these changes may be affected by many factors, which may not be directly related to underlying demand for our products by veterinary practices, which are the end users. therefore, we believe it is important to track sales to end users in the relevant periods by our significant distributors in order to distinguish between the impact of end-user demand and the impact of distributor purchasing dynamics on our reported revenue in those periods. in addition, where growth rates are affected by changes in end-user demand, we refer to this as the impact of practice-level sales on growth. where growth rates are affected by distributor purchasing dynamics, we refer to this as the impact of changes in distributors inventories on growth. if during the current year, distributors inventories grew by less than those inventories grew in the comparable period of the prior year, then changes in distributors inventories would have an unfavorable impact on our reported sales growth in the current period. conversely, if during the current year, distributors inventories grew by more than those inventories grew in the comparable period of the prior year, then changes in distributors inventories would have a favorable impact on our reported sales growth in the current period. in the u.s., effective january 1, 2015, we fully transitioned to an all-direct sales strategy. under this approach, we take orders, ship product, invoice and receive payment for all rapid assay test kits and vetlab consumables, instruments, reference laboratory services, and other cag products and services. while changes in prior year u.s. distributors inventory levels impacted 2015 reported growth results, distributor inventory levels had an immaterial impact on our reported u.s. sales and growth results in later years. in certain other countries, we continue to sell our products through third-party distributors. although we are unable to obtain data for sales to end users from certain less significant non-u.s. third party distributors, we do not believe the impact of changes in these distributors inventories had or would have a material impact on our growth rates in the relevant periods. currency impact . for the year ended december 31, 201 7 , approximately 21 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 2 1 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016, and 2 0 percent f or the year ended december 31, 201 5 . strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies has a negative impact on our revenues derived in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and on profits of products manufactured or purchased in u.s. dollars and sold internationally, and a weakening of the u.s. dollar has the opposite effect. similarly, to the extent that the u.s. dollar is stronger in current or future periods relative to the exchange rates in effect in the corresponding prior periods, our growth rate will be negatively affected. the impact of foreign currency denominated operating expenses and foreign currency denominated supply contracts partly offsets this exposure. additionally, our designated hedges of intercompany inventory purchases and sales help delay the impact of certain exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. denominated revenues. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our future income tax expense could also be affected by changes in the mix of earnings, including as a result of changes in the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to currencies in countries with differing statutory tax rates. see part i, item 1a. risk factors included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding tax impacts. effects of economic conditions . demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, including slow economic growth, high unemployment, and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, diagnostic imaging, and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. in the u.s., we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although this data is a limited sample and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, which may affect the number of patient visits in a given period, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. 56 economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. water testing volumes may be susceptible to declines in discretionary testing for existing home and commercial sales and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. testing volumes may also be impacted by severe weather conditions such as drought. in addition, fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and herd health screening services. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the potential effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. effects of patent expiration . although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2017, and several that are expected to expire in 2018 and beyond, the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or future operations due to a range of factors as described in item 1. business - patents and licenses . non-gaap financial measures . the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth, and references in this analysis and discussion to revenue, revenues or revenue growth are references to organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the current year , as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, business acquisitions, and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable prior year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. we also exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of business acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends . we also use adjusted ebitda, gross debt, net debt, gross debt to adjusted ebitda ratio and net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio, all of which are non-gaap financial measures that should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, financial measures presented according to u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting these non-gaap financial measures provides supplemental analysis to help investors further evaluate our business performance and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility. comparisons to prior periods . our fiscal years end on december 31. unless otherwise stated, the analysis and discussion of our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including references to growth and organic growth and increases and decreases, are being compared to the equivalent prior year period. 57 twelve months ended december 31, 201 7, compared to twelv e months ended december 31, 2016 total company the following table presents revenue by operating segment by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international markets : for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 change change currency acquisitions growth (1) cag $ 1,703,377 $ 1,522,689 $ 180,688 11.9% 0.3% 0.2% 11.4% united states 1,125,364 1,017,065 108,299 10.6% - 0.2% 10.5% international 578,013 505,624 72,389 14.3% 0.8% 0.4% 13.2% water 114,395 103,579 10,816 10.4% 0.3% - 10.2% united states 55,482 52,852 2,630 5.0% - - 5.0% international 58,913 50,727 8,186 16.1% 0.6% - 15.6% lpd 128,481 126,491 1,990 1.6% 1.1% - 0.5% united states 14,108 13,253 855 6.5% - - 6.5% international 114,373 113,238 1,135 1.0% 1.2% - (0.2%) other 22,805 22,664 141 0.6% 0.1% - 0.5% total company $ 1,969,058 $ 1,775,423 $ 193,635 10.9% 0.3% 0.2% 10.4% united states 1,203,547 1,089,595 113,952 10.5% - 0.2% 10.3% international 765,511 685,828 79,683 11.6% 0.8% 0.3% 10.5% (1) amounts presented may not recalculate to organic revenue growth rates due to rounding. u.s. and international organic revenue growth both reflect strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies that are driving increased volumes from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business , and continued strong growth in cag diagnostics instrument installed base, including growth in our sedivue analyzer installed base . international organic growth was strong in europe and asia pacific, reflecting the aforementioned c ag diagnostics recurring volume- driven growth. our water business also contributed to our international growth, primarily from higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories in europe, the asia-pacific region, and increases from our go-direct initiative in brazil. 58 the following table presents our total company results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change total company - results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2017 revenue 2016 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 1,969,058 $ 1,775,423 $ 193,635 10.9% cost of revenue 871,676 799,987 71,689 9.0% gross profit 1,097,382 55.7% 975,436 54.9% 121,946 12.5% operating expenses: sales and marketing 354,294 18.0% 317,058 17.9% 37,236 11.7% general and administrative 220,878 11.2% 207,017 11.7% 13,861 6.7% research and development 109,182 5.5% 101,122 5.7% 8,060 8.0% total operating expenses 684,354 34.8% 625,197 35.2% 59,157 9.5% income from operations $ 413,028 21.0% $ 350,239 19.7% $ 62,789 17.9% total company gross profit increase was due to higher sales volumes and an 80 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in the gross profit percentage was supported by the net benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio, the favorable impact of lower product and manufacturing costs, and favorable mix benefits from high growth cag diagnostic recurring revenues. these favorable impacts were slightly offset by a reduction of approximately 20 basis points from currency movements, including the combined impact of comparisons to hedge gains in the prior year and hedge losses in the current year. the increase in total company sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increases in personnel-related costs as we continued to invest in and grow our global commercial infrastructure. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from information technology investments, including ongoing depreciation and maintenance associated with prior year projects and higher personnel-related costs, offset by a prior year non-cash intangible asset impairment within our opti medical business. research and development expense increased primarily due to higher personnel-related and consultant costs. 59 companion animal group the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 change change currency acquisitions growth (1) cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,451,701 $ 1,281,262 $ 170,439 13.3% 0.2% 0.3% 12.8% idexx vetlab consumables 518,774 451,456 67,318 14.9% 0.3% - 14.6% rapid assay products 205,309 189,122 16,187 8.6% 0.1% - 8.5% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 660,142 581,067 79,075 13.6% 0.2% 0.6% 12.8% cag diagnostics service and accessories 67,476 59,617 7,859 13.2% 0.3% - 12.9% cag diagnostics capital - instruments 119,963 121,191 (1,228) (1.0%) 0.6% - (1.6%) veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 131,713 120,236 11,477 9.5% 0.2% 0.5% 8.9% net cag revenue $ 1,703,377 $ 1,522,689 $ 180,688 11.9% 0.3% 0.2% 11.4% (1) amounts presented may not recalculate to organic revenue growth rates due to rounding. cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to increased volumes in reference laboratory diagnostic services and idexx vetlab consumables and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. idexx vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher sales volumes in the u.s., europe , and the asia-pacific region from our catalyst consumables and , to a lesser extent, procyte dx consumables and sedivue dx analyzer pay-per-run sales, resulting from growth in testing by existing and new customers, and an expanded menu of available tests, as well as higher average unit sales prices. the increase in rapid assay revenue resulted from higher sales volumes and average unit price of canine snap 4dx plus tests and higher sales volumes of single analyte snap products. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was primarily due to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from existing customers, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, such as idexx sdma and fecal antigen testing. additionally, the increase in revenue was the result of higher average unit sales prices. cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. 60 cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue . the decrease in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue reflects our shift to focus sales incentives on the long-term economic value of instrument placements during 2017, partially offset by our sales of sedivue dx, introduced in the second quarter of 2016. our focus on long-term economic value continues to drive new and competitive catalyst placements, which are the highest economic value placements due to the incremental cag diagnostic recurring revenue. as part of this focus, we continue to see declines in the lower relative long-term economic value second catalyst placements, as well as growth of our customer commitment programs, including up-front customer loyalty programs in the u.s. and reagent rental programs internationally. these customer commitment programs result in lower up-front instrument revenue recognized at the time of placement, and instead the recognition of revenue for these programs occurs over the term of the customer agreement. veterinary software, services, and diagnostic imaging systems revenue. the increase in customer information management and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was primarily due to increasing veterina ry subscription service revenue, growth in diagnostic imaging placements, and higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our installed base. these favorable factors were partially offset by lower relative diagnostic imaging system prices. the following table presents the cag segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2017 revenue 2016 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 1,703,377 $ 1,522,689 $ 180,688 11.9% cost of revenue 766,579 702,367 64,212 9.1% gross profit 936,798 55.0% 820,322 53.9% 116,476 14.2% operating expenses: sales and marketing 312,497 18.3% 277,377 18.2% 35,120 12.7% general and administrative 180,907 10.6% 168,637 11.1% 12,270 7.3% research and development 79,837 4.7% 72,966 4.8% 6,871 9.4% total operating expenses 573,241 33.7% 518,980 34.1% 54,261 10.5% income from operations $ 363,557 21.3% $ 301,342 19.8% $ 62,215 20.6% cag gross profit. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales volumes, along with a 110 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage . the unfavorable impact of currency reduced the gross profit percentage by approximately 20 basis points, resulting primarily from lower hedging gains in 2017 . excluding currency impacts, the increase in gross margins was supported by the net benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostic recurring portfolio, the favorable impact of lower product and manufacturing costs, and favorable mix benefits from high growth in idexx vetlab consumables and rapid assay revenues, offset by incremental investments in reference laboratory capacity and relatively lower idexx vetlab instrument prices reflecting strong international growth. cag operating expenses. the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs as we continue to invest in and grow our global commercial infrastructure. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from information technology investments, including ongoing depreciation and maintenance associated with prior year projects and higher personnel-related costs. the increase in research and development expense was primarily due to increased personnel-related costs. 61 water the following table presents the water segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2017 revenue 2016 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 114,395 $ 103,579 $ 10,816 10.4% cost of revenue 35,030 31,701 3,329 10.5% gross profit 79,365 69.4% 71,878 69.4% 7,487 10.4% operating expenses: sales and marketing 14,482 12.7% 13,201 12.7% 1,281 9.7% general and administrative 11,803 10.3% 10,426 10.1% 1,377 13.2% research and development 2,464 2.2% 2,549 2.5% (85) (3.3%) total operating expenses 28,749 25.1% 26,176 25.3% 2,573 9.8% income from operations $ 50,616 44.2% $ 45,702 44.1% $ 4,914 10.8% revenue. the increase in water revenue was attributable to higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories, used in coliform and e. coli testing in the asia-pacific region and north america, and the benefits of price increases in latin america. revenue growth in latin america was driven by our go-direct initiative in brazil, which contributed approximately 4 percent to revenue growth, including the impact of reductions in distributor inventories in 2016 and the benefits of price increases in 2017. the favorable impact of currency increased revenue by approximately 30 basis points. gross profit. gross profit for water increased due to higher sale volumes. the gross profit percentage was flat, year over year, primarily due to the net benefit of price increases, which were largely driven by our go-direct initiative in brazil, offset by higher manufacturing and distribution costs, and the overall change in currency exchange rates which decreased the gross profit percentage by approximately 70 basis points . the change in exchange rates was primarily due to lower relative hedge gains in 2017 . operating expenses. the increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to higher personnel-related costs related to increased head count. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from investments in brazil and higher personnel-related costs. research and development expense was lower primarily due to allocation of project costs and certain higher project costs that were incurred in 2016, partially offset by increases in personnel-related costs due to increased headcount. 62 livestock, poultry and dairy the following table presents the lpd segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2017 revenue 2016 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 128,481 $ 126,491 $ 1,990 1.6% cost of revenue 56,341 52,690 3,651 6.9% gross profit 72,140 56.1% 73,801 58.3% (1,661) (2.3%) operating expenses: sales and marketing 24,801 19.3% 22,723 18.0% 2,078 9.1% general and administrative 18,723 14.6% 20,193 16.0% (1,470) (7.3%) research and development 12,152 9.5% 11,971 9.5% 181 1.5% total operating expenses 55,676 43.3% 54,887 43.4% 789 1.4% income from operations $ 16,464 12.8% $ 18,914 15.0% $ (2,450) (13.0%) revenue. the increase in lpd revenue resulted from an increase in swine testing, primarily in china, expanded pregnancy testing primarily in europe and north america, and moderate growth in european bovine program revenues. these increases were partially offset by lower dairy producer demand for diagnostic testing particularly in china and brazil, and lower herd health screening, primarily driven by lower global milk prices. the favorable impact of currency increased revenue 110 basis points. gross profit. the decrease in lpd gross profit was due to higher sales volume offset by a 220 basis point reduction in the gross profit percentage reflecting higher product costs. the overall change in currency exchange rates had no impact on the gross profit percentage, primarily due to increased hedge losses in the current year compared to the prior year. operating expenses. overall , lpd operating expenses increased by less than 2 percent. sales and marketing expenses were higher due to increases in commercial infrastructure investments in emerging markets. general and administrative expenses were lower due to a lower lpd allocation of overall overhead costs reflecting the higher relative growth in our cag business as compared to lpd. research and development expenses were relatively consistent. 63 other the following table presents the other results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2017 revenue 2016 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 22,805 $ 22,664 $ 141 0.6% cost of revenue 11,417 11,103 314 2.8% gross profit 11,388 49.9% 11,561 51.0% (173) (1.5%) operating expenses: sales and marketing 2,093 9.2% 2,870 12.7% (777) (27.1%) general and administrative 3,359 14.7% 4,908 21.7% (1,549) (31.6%) research and development 1,099 4.8% 2,899 12.8% (1,800) (62.1%) total operating expenses 6,551 28.7% 10,677 47.1% (4,126) (38.6%) income from operations $ 4,837 21.2% $ 884 3.9% $ 3,953 447.2% revenue. the increase in other was primarily due to higher realized prices on our opti medical products and services, partially offset by lower sales volumes of our opti medical blood gas analyzers and related consumables as a result of temporary product availability constraints during the first half of 2017. gross profit. gross profit for other decreased due to a 110 basis point decrease in the gross profit percentage as a result of higher manufacturing costs, partially offset by higher realized pricing on overall opti medical products and services. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in the gross profit percentage of less than 10 basis points. operating expenses. the decrease in operating expense was due primarily to an intangible asset impairment within our opti medical business during the first half of 2016 and lower personnel cost in research and development as a result of discontinuing certain product development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed our opti medical product offering, which resulted in the discontinuance of our instrument development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and a decision to focus our commercial and development efforts to support our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer. management identified unfavorable trends in our opti medical business resulting from this change in strategy. we revised our forecasts downward, causing us to assess the realizability of the related tangible and intangible assets and determined the expected future cash flows were less than the carrying value of the opti medical asset group. non-cash intangible asset impairments of $2.2 million were recognized during the six months ended june 30, 2016. 64 unallocated amounts we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the following table presents the unallocated amounts results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 amount percentage revenues $ - $ - $ - n/a cost of revenue 2,309 2,126 183 8.6% gross profit (2,309) (2,126) (183) 8.6% operating expenses: sales and marketing 421 887 (466) (52.5%) general and administrative 6,086 2,853 3,233 113.3% research and development 13,630 10,737 2,893 26.9% total operating expenses 20,137 14,477 5,660 39.1% income from operations $ (22,446) $ (16,603) $ (5,843) 35.2% gross profit. costs of revenues that were not allocated to segments were re latively consistent . operating expenses. the increase in operating expenses was primar ily due to higher than budgeted corporate function spending in research and development, information technology , facilities management, human resources, and higher than budgeted employee incentive costs. the overall increase in operating expenses was partially offset by favorable foreign exchange gains on monetary assets, as compared to losses in the prior year, as well as increased benefits from customer interest payments on overdue accounts. non-operating items interest income. interest income was $5.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to $3.7 million for the same period in the prior year. the increase in interest income was due primarily to a larger relative portfolio of marketable securities during the year ended december 31, 2017, and, to a lesser extent, higher interest rates, as compared to the prior year. interest expense. interest expense was $37.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to $32.0 million for the prior year. the increase in interest expense was due to higher outstanding balances and higher floating interest rates on our credit facility. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes and credit facility. provisions for income taxes. our effective income tax rate was 30.9 percent for the year ended december 31, 2017, and 31.0 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016. our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2017, was lower as a result of the adoption of asu 2016-09 related to share-based compensation, which decreased our effective tax rate by approximately 7 percent (s ee note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information regarding the adoption of asu 2016-09) and the utilization of foreign tax credits, which reduced our effective tax rate by approximately 1 percent . these decreases were offset by the following non-recurring items: a deemed repatriation tax, net of the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the tax act and a tax benefit related to state tax credit carryforwards, which combined, increased our tax rate by approximately 8 percent. 65 twelve months ended december 31, 201 6, compared to twelve months ended december 31, 201 5 total company the following table presents revenue by operating segmen t, by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international markets : for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 change change currency acquisitions growth (1) cag $ 1,522,689 $ 1,356,287 $ 166,402 12.3% (0.6%) 0.3% 12.6% united states 1,017,065 912,822 104,243 11.4% - 0.2% 11.2% international 505,624 443,465 62,159 14.0% (2.0%) 0.5% 15.5% water 103,579 96,884 6,695 6.9% (1.8%) - 8.7% united states 52,852 48,677 4,175 8.6% - - 8.6% international 50,727 48,207 2,520 5.2% (3.7%) - 8.9% lpd 126,491 127,143 (652) (0.5%) (1.6%) - 1.1% united states 13,253 14,041 (788) (5.6%) - - (5.6%) international 113,238 113,102 136 0.1% (1.8%) - 1.9% other 22,664 21,578 1,086 5.0% (0.1%) - 5.1% total company $ 1,775,423 $ 1,601,892 $ 173,531 10.8% (0.8%) 0.2% 11.4% united states 1,089,595 980,321 109,274 11.1% 0.1% 0.2% 10.8% international 685,828 621,571 64,257 10.3% (2.1%) 0.4% 12.0% (1) amounts presented may not recalculate to organic revenue growth rates due to rounding. u.s. and international organic revenue growth both reflect very strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies that are driving increased volumes from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business, and continued strong growth in cag diagnostics capital instrument placements that are driving idexx vetlab consumable volume growth. international organic growth across europe, asia pacific and latin america outpaced u.s. growth, reflecting the aforementioned cag diagnostics recurring volume driven growth, continued growth of colilert testing products in our water business and lpd emerging market growth, offset by declines in lpd bovine disease eradication testing in europe. to a lesser extent, u.s. and international lpd organic growth also reflects pressure on our dairy testing business due to a decline in worldwide milk prices. 66 the following table presents the total company results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change total company - results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 1,775,423 $ 1,601,892 $ 173,531 10.8% cost of revenue 799,987 711,622 88,365 12.4% gross profit 975,436 54.9% 890,270 55.6% 85,166 9.6% operating expenses: sales and marketing 317,058 17.9% 299,955 18.7% 17,103 5.7% general and administrative 207,017 11.7% 182,510 11.4% 24,507 13.4% research and development 101,122 5.7% 99,681 6.2% 1,441 1.4% impairment charge - 0.0% 8,212 0.5% (8,212) n/a total operating expenses 625,197 35.2% 590,358 36.9% 34,839 5.9% income from operations $ 350,239 19.7% $ 299,912 18.7% $ 50,327 16.8% total company g ross profit increased due to higher sales volumes, partly offset by a 70 basis point reduction in the gross profit percentage during the year ended december 3 1, 2016 . excluding currency impacts of approximately 118 basis points, gross margins increased moderately, supported by improvements in our cag business. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recorded an $8.2 million impairment charge related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service within unallocated amounts as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our information management business. for the year ended december 31, 2015, adjusted operating income, which is total company operating income adjusted for the aforementioned software impairment charge was approximately $308.1 million and 19.2 percent of revenue. adjusted operating income increased by $42.1 million or 13.7 percent for t he year ended december 31, 2016 . adjusted operating income is a non-gaap financial measure and should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or as a superior measure to, operating income reported in accordance with u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting adjusted operating income provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our operating income performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. 67 companion animal group the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the year for the year ended ended percentage percentage organic net revenue december 31, december 31, dollar percentage change from change from revenue (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 change change currency acquisitions growth (1) cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,281,262 $ 1,147,026 $ 134,236 11.7% (0.7%) 0.4% 12.0% idexx vetlab consumables 451,456 396,526 54,930 13.9% (0.8%) - 14.7% rapid assay products 189,122 182,670 6,452 3.5% - - 3.5% reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 581,067 512,155 68,912 13.5% (0.9%) 0.8% 13.6% cag diagnostics service and accessories 59,617 55,675 3,942 7.1% (0.3%) - 7.4% cag diagnostics capital instruments 121,191 98,502 22,689 23.0% (0.7%) - 23.7% veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 120,236 110,759 9,477 8.6% (0.2%) - 8.8% net cag revenue $ 1,522,689 $ 1,356,287 $ 166,402 12.3% (0.6%) 0.3% 12.6% (1) amounts presented may not recalculate to organic revenue growth rates due to rounding. cag diagnostics recurring revenue. the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was due primarily to higher sales of our idexx vetlab consumables and reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services resulting from increased volumes and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. idexx vetlab consumables revenue growth was due primarily to higher sa les volumes in the u.s., europe, and the asia-pacific region from our catalyst consumables and, to a lesser extent, procyte dx consumables, resulting from growth in testing by existing customers, the acquisition of new customers and an expanded menu of available tests. these favorable impacts were partly offset by lower consumables volumes from our vettest chemistry instrument due to customer upgrades from our previous generation vettest to our catalyst analyzers. idexx vetlab consumables revenue also benefited from higher average unit sales prices. the increase in rapid assay revenue resulted from higher average unit price and sales volumes of snap 4dx and higher sales volumes of single analyte snap products. these favorable factors were partly offset by the unfavorable impact of lower average unit sales prices in the u.s. for certain earlier generation rapid assay products. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was due primarily to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from existing customers and the net acquisition of new customers, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, such as the idexx sdma test . also, revenue increased, to a lesser extent, from higher average unit sales prices due to price increases. testing volumes benefited slightly from favorable weather trends experienced during the first quarter of 2016 . cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue. the increase in cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue resulted from the launch of our sedivue dx analyzer in the second quarter of 2016 , which contributed approximately 23 percent to reported and organic instrument revenue growth, and higher procyte dx revenues, partly offset by lower catalyst revenues resulting from a shift in placements from our catalyst dx 68 analyzer to our lower priced catalyst one analyzer and the prior year benefit of recognizing previously deferred revenues associated with pre-orders of our catalyst one analyzer in the u.s. in 2014. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems revenue. the increase in veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems revenue was due primarily to increasing diagnostic imaging systems revenue, higher veterinary subscription service revenue , including increases in our pet health network pro subscriber base and higher support revenue resulting from an increase in our active installed base of diagnostic imaging and practice management systems. revenues from diagnostic imaging systems were higher due to the timing of revenue recognized from fewer deferred revenue placements under up-f ront customer loyalty programs , and the recognition of previously deferred revenues. these favorable factors were partially offset by fewer licensed-based cornerstone placements as we evolve to a subscription-based model for new practice management customer acquisitions, as well as lower average unit sale prices on diagnostic imaging system placements. the following table presents the cag segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 1,522,689 $ 1,356,287 $ 166,402 12.3% cost of revenue 702,367 626,984 75,383 12.0% gross profit 820,322 53.9% 729,303 53.8% 91,019 12.5% operating expenses: sales and marketing 277,377 18.2% 263,907 19.5% 13,470 5.1% general and administrative 168,637 11.1% 159,851 11.8% 8,786 5.5% research and development 72,966 4.8% 72,226 5.3% 740 1.0% total operating expenses 518,980 34.1% 495,984 36.6% 22,996 4.6% income from operations $ 301,342 19.8% $ 233,319 17.2% $ 68,023 29.2% cag gross profit. gross profit for cag increased due to higher sales volumes, along with a 10 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the unfavorable impact of currency reduced the gross profit percentage by approximately 90 basis points, resulting primarily from lower hedging gains. excluding currency impacts, gross margins increased moderately, supported by the net benefit of price increases for our reference laboratory diagnostic services and idexx vetlab consumables and profitability improvements from higher relative revenue of our expanded subscription service offerings, and within our worldwide netw ork of reference laboratories. cag operating expenses. the increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, including investments in our global commercial infrastructure and sales performance incentives, partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from information technology investments, including ongoing depreciation and maintenance associated with prior year projects, and higher personnel-related costs. these increases were partly offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. research and development expense was generally consistent. 69 water the following table presents the water segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 103,579 $ 96,884 $ 6,695 6.9% cost of revenue 31,701 27,931 3,770 13.5% gross profit 71,878 69.4% 68,953 71.2% 2,925 4.2% operating expenses: sales and marketing 13,201 12.7% 12,204 12.6% 997 8.2% general and administrative 10,426 10.1% 9,058 9.3% 1,368 15.1% research and development 2,549 2.5% 2,939 3.0% (390) (13.3%) total operating expenses 26,176 25.3% 24,201 25.0% 1,975 8.2% income from operations $ 45,702 44.1% $ 44,752 46.2% $ 950 2.1% revenue. the increase in water revenue was attributable to all regions in which we operate, most notably from strong performance in north america, europe , and the asia-pacific region. higher revenues resulted primarily from increased sales volumes and price increases of our colilert test products and related accessories used in coliform and e. coli testing, placements of our quanti-tray sealer plus instrument, which we launched in june 2015, several large project orders during the first half of 2016, and to a lesser extent, from higher sales volumes of our products designed to detect cryptosporidium related to an outbreak in the united kingdom beginning in mid-2015 through the first half of 2016. testing volumes also benefited slightly from favorable weather trends experienced during the first quarter of 2016. gross profit. gross profit for water increased due to higher sales volumes, offset by a 180 basis point reduction in the gross profit percentage. the unfavorable impact of currency reduced the gross profit percentage by approximately 210 basis points, resulting from lower hedging gains and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding currency impacts, the gross profit percentage increased slightly due to the net benefit of price increases on our colilert testing products and related accessories. operating expenses. the increase in sales and marketing was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs and increased advertising and marketing materials. the increase in general and administrative expense was due primarily to higher personnel-related costs. the decrease in research and development expense was a result of lower product development costs during t he year ended december 31, 2016 . 70 livestock, poultry and dairy the following table presents the lpd segment results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 126,491 $ 127,143 $ (652) (0.5%) cost of revenue 52,690 47,156 5,534 11.7% gross profit 73,801 58.3% 79,987 62.9% (6,186) (7.7%) operating expenses: sales and marketing 22,723 18.0% 22,307 17.5% 416 1.9% general and administrative 20,193 16.0% 18,655 14.7% 1,538 8.2% research and development 11,971 9.5% 11,868 9.3% 103 0.9% total operating expenses 54,887 43.4% 52,830 41.6% 2,057 3.9% income from operations $ 18,914 15.0% $ 27,157 21.4% $ (8,243) (30.4%) revenue. the overall change in exchange rates reduced revenue growth by approximately 160 basis points. the increase in lpd organic revenue resulted from strong performance in emerging markets, most notably resulting from higher sales volumes of swine, poultry and bovine pregnancy products and services in various regions. this increase was partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes of bovine testing products within western europe in large part due to the success of certain disease eradication programs in the region, as well as pressure on our dairy testing business due to a decline in worldwide milk prices. gross profit. gross profit for lpd decreased due to a reduction in the gross profit percentage of 460 basis points. the decrease in the gross profit percentage resulted primarily from approximately 360 basis points of unfavorable currency impact, primarily due to lower relative hedging gains. additionally, higher overall manufacturing costs, which were partially offset by the expiration of royalties on certain of our swine testing products, resulted in an overall lower gross profit. operating expenses. the increase in sales and marketing expense for the year ended december 31, 2016, was due to higher commercial infrastructure investments within emerging markets. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher investments in emerging markets including brazil. the increase in research and development expense resulted primarily from higher external product development and material costs. all the increases above were partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 71 other the following table presents the other results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations percent of percent of (dollars in thousands) 2016 revenue 2015 revenue amount percentage revenues $ 22,664 $ 21,578 $ 1,086 5.0% cost of revenue 11,103 11,297 (194) (1.7%) gross profit 11,561 51.0% 10,281 47.6% 1,280 12.5% operating expenses: sales and marketing 2,870 12.7% 3,466 16.1% (596) (17.2%) general and administrative 4,908 21.7% 3,326 15.4% 1,582 47.6% research and development 2,899 12.8% 3,626 16.8% (727) (20.0%) total operating expenses 10,677 47.1% 10,418 48.3% 259 2.5% income from operations $ 884 3.9% $ (137) (0.6%) $ 1,021 (745.3%) revenue. the increase in other revenue was due primarily to royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, partially offset by lower sales volumes of our opti medical blood gas analyzers and related consumables. gross profit. gross profit for other increased due to higher sales and an increase in the gross profit percentage of 340 basis points. the increase in the gross profit percentage resulted primarily from higher relative royalty revenue associated with the commercialization of certain intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, partly offset by an increase in overall opti medical product costs. operating expenses. operating expenses for other, which totaled $10.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, increased $0.3 million, due primarily to intangible impairments within our opti medical business, partly offset by lower amortization expense on the aforementioned intangible assets and a reduction in personnel-related costs. during the first half of 2016, management reviewed the opti medical product offerings. as a result of this review, we discontinued our product development activities in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market during march 2016 and focused our commercial efforts in this market on supporting our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer . management identified unfavorable trends in our opti medical line of business resulting from this change in strategy. we revised our forecasts downward, causing us to assess the realizability of the related tangible and intangible assets and determined the expected future cash flows were less than the carrying value of the opti medical asset group. non-cash intangible asset impairments of $2.2 million were recorded during the year ended december 31, 2016. 72 unallocated amounts we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the following table presents the unallocated amounts results of operations: for the year ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 amount percentage revenues $ - $ - $ - n/a cost of revenue 2,126 (1,746) 3,872 (221.8%) gross profit (2,126) 1,746 (3,872) (221.8%) operating expenses: sales and marketing 887 (1,929) 2,816 (146.0%) general and administrative 2,853 (8,380) 11,233 (134.0%) research and development 10,737 9,022 1,715 19.0% impairment charge - 8,212 (8,212) n/a total operating expenses 14,477 6,925 7,552 109.1% income from operations $ (16,603) $ (5,179) $ (11,424) 220.6% gross profit. gross profit for unallocated amounts decreased due primarily to higher personnel-related costs as compared to budget . the increase in personnel-related costs was due primarily to higher self-insured healthcare costs and higher than budgeted employee incentives reported within unallocated amounts during the year ended december 31, 2016. operating expenses. operating expenses that are not allocated to our operating segments increased $7.6 million to $14.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, due primarily to higher personnel-related costs as compared to budget, reflecting increased employee incentives and higher self-insured health claim expenses, as well as certain foreign exchange losses on monetary assets due to strengthening of the u.s. dollar. this compares to prior period cost control initiatives that resulted in lower than budgeted costs. partially offsetting these increases was the aforementioned $8.2 million impairment charge recorded in 2015, related to internally-developed software not yet placed into service as a result of a strategic shift to refocus our development efforts within our veterinary software and services business. 73 non-operating items interest income. interest income was $3.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $2.5 million for the prior year. the increase in interest income was due primarily to a larger relative portfolio of marketable securities during the year ended december 31, 2016, and, to a lesser extent, higher interest rates . interest expense. interest expense was $32.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to $29.2 million for the prior year. the increase in interest expense resulted from higher relative interest incurred in 2016 as a result of approximately $250 million in senior notes that we issued and sold through private placements during the first half of 2015, for which fixed interest rates range from 1.785 percent to 3.72 percent. additionally, the increase in interest expense was due to higher relative interest rates on our credit facility. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes and credit facility. provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate was 31.0 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to 29.7 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the year ended december 31, 2015, was primarily related to a change in earnings mix in 2016, with relatively higher earnings subject to domestic tax rates as opposed to lower international tax rates including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. 74 liquidity and capital resources we fund the capital needs of our business through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, and amounts available under our credit facility. in addition, we issued $150 million of senior notes in february 2015 and 88.9 million of euro-denominated senior notes in june 2015. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, we purchased marketable debt securities using a portion of our cash balances. we generate cash primarily through the payments made by customers for our diagnostic products and services, consumables, consulting services, and other various systems and services provided to the animal veterinary, livestock , poultry, dairy, and water testing markets. our cash disbursements are primarily related to compensation and benefits for our employees, inventory and supplies, taxes, research and development, capital expenditures, rents, occupancy-related charges, interest expense, and acquisitions. at de cember 31, 2017, we had $471.9 million of cash , cash equivalents and marketable securities , as compared to $391.8 million on december 31, 2016, and $3 4 2. 6 million on december 31, 2015 . working capital, including our credit facility, totaled negative $ 32 . 6 million at december 31, 2017, as compared to negative $ 89 . 0 million at december 31, 2016, and negative $35 . 1 million at december 31, 2015. additionally, at december 31, 2017, we had remaining borrowing availability of $ 194.0 million under our $850 million credit facility. we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain additional borrowings at similar rates to our existing borrowings to fund our growth objectives. we further believe that current cash and cash equivalents, our portfolio of short-duration marketable securities, funds generated from operations, and committed borrowing availability will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital purchase requirements, and anticipated growth needs for the next twelve months. we believe that these resources, coupled with our ability, as needed, to obtain additional financing on favorable terms will also be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our business as currently conducted. the tax act was enacted on december 22, 2017, and includes significant changes to the u.s. corporate tax system. the tax act reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective as of january 1, 2018, and transitioned the u.s. federal tax system from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. in converting to the new territorial tax system, a deemed repatriation tax on previously tax-deferred earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries was required to be recognized as of december 31, 2017, and will be payable over eight years. as a result of the tax act, we are no longer asserting indefinite investment for undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries earned prior to december 31, 2017. we have recorded a provisional amount of $48.8 million for the deemed repatriation tax liability related to these earnings which will be paid over eight years. 75 the following table presents cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically , and by our foreign subsidiaries: cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities for the years ended december 31, (dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 u.s. $ 5.9 $ 4.8 $ 1.4 foreign 466.0 387.0 341.2 total $ 471.9 $ 391.8 $ 342.6 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in u.s. dollars $ 334.3 $ 285.8 $ 239.2 percentage of total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in u.s. dollars 70.8% 72.9% 69.8% during 2018, in connection with the passage of the tax act in the fourth quarter of 2017, we intend to liquidate our marketable securities and use the cash to partially pay down our credit facility . we held marketable securities with effective maturities of two years or less that had an average aa- credit rating as of december 31, 2017. the following table presents marketable securities at fair value for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 : for the year for the year ended ended marketable securities december 31, percent of december 31, percent of (dollars in millions) 2017 total 2016 total corporate bonds $ 140.9 49.6% $ 130.8 55.2% certificates of deposit 58.5 20.6% 40.4 17.1% commercial paper 29.2 10.3% 20.2 8.5% asset backed securities 22.2 7.8% 27.3 11.5% u.s. government bonds 15.6 5.5% 12.2 5.1% agency bonds 10.9 3.8% 4.6 1.9% treasury bills 7.0 2.5% - 0.0% all other - 0.0% 1.4 0.6% total marketable securities $ 284.3 $ 236.9 of the $187.7 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2017, approximately 82 percent was held as bank deposits, approximately 18 percent was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities, and the remainder consisted of commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of less than ninety days. of the $154.9 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2016, 76 percent was held as bank deposits, 22 percent was invested in money market funds restricted to u.s. government and agency securities, and the remainder consisted of commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of less than ninety days. should we require more capital than is generated by our operations, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, we could raise capital through debt or equity issuances. these alternatives could result in increased interest expense and dilution of our earnings. we have borrowed funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. 76 the following table presents additional key information concerning working capital: for the three months ended december 31, september 30, june 30, march 31, december 31, 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 days sales outstanding (1) 41.7 43.4 41.7 42.4 42.1 inventory turns (2) 2.2 1.9 2.0 1.9 2.0 (1) days sales outstanding represents the average of the accounts receivable balances at the beginning and end of each quarter divided by revenue for that quarter, the result of which is then multiplied by 91.25 days. (2) inventory turns represent inventory-related cost of product revenue for the 12 months preceding each quarter-end divided by the inventory balance at the end of the quarter. sources and uses of cash the following table presents cash provided (used): for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 net cash provided by operating activities $ 373,276 $ 338,943 $ 221,802 net cash used by investing activities (138,688) (90,786) (308,406) net cash used by financing activities (208,016) (222,196) (100,990) net effect of changes in exchange rates on cash 6,202 (54) (5,948) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 32,774 $ 25,907 $ (193,542) operating activities. the increase in cash provided by o perating activities of $ 34.3 million during 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in net income , including the impact of adopting the new accounting guidance for share-based compensation. the in crease in cash provided by operating activities of $ 117.1 million during 2016 as compared to 2015 was due primarily to changes in operating assets and liabilities, as well as an increase in net income including increases in non-cash charges . the following table presents cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 accounts receivable $ (24,918) $ (22,554) $ (50,142) inventories (19,062) 7,648 (34,969) accounts payable 1,391 2,117 (2,468) deferred revenue 3,551 7,672 (319) other assets and liabilities 47,418 12,491 23,525 tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements - (14,702) (11,315) total change in cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities and the tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements $ 8,380 $ (7,328) $ (75,688) the cash used by accounts receivable during 2017 as compared to 2016 was relatively consistent with revenue growth . the reduction in cash used by accounts receivable during 2016 as compared to 2015 was primarily due to the absence of the impacts related to our change in u.s. commercial strategy impacting the first quarter of 2015. the incremental cash used by accounts receivable for the year ended december 31, 2015, was primarily due to our transition to an all-direct strategy in the u.s., including the establishment of accounts receivable directly with our u.s. end-users that previously purchased from our u.s. distribution partners, which take a longer elapsed time to collect. additionally, accounts receivable was impacted by revenue growth for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, relative to the respective prior periods, including the margin capture associated with the aforementioned all-direct strategy. the net incremental cash used by inventories during 2017 as compared to cash provided by inventories in 2016 was primarily due to our operational initiatives to optimize inventory levels that were implemented in the first 77 half of 2016, which followed a period of inventory growth to support new products and increasing demand. cash used by inventories for 2015 was primarily due to growth in our volume commitment rental programs in international markets and relatively higher inventory levels to support new instrument and diagnostic test launches. the decrease in cash provided by deferred revenue during 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to customer program mix. the increase in cash provided by deferred revenue during 2016 as compared to cash used by deferred revenue for 2015 was primarily due to the recognition in 2015 of deferred revenues related to our 2014 catalyst one introductory offer, where we pre-sold the instrument and provided customers with temporary use of a catalyst dx instrument. the increase in cash provided by other assets and liabilities during 2017 as compared to cash provided by assets and liabilities during 2016 was primarily due to the deemed repatriation tax on foreign profits from the enactment of the tax act, which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 and is payable over eight years, as well as higher relative employee incentive compensation payments. the decrease in cash provided by other assets and liabilities during 2016 as compared to 2015 was the result of higher taxable income in 2015. income tax payments were lower during 2015 resulting from one-time impacts of implementing our u.s. all-direct strategy and the benefit from the tax increase prevention act enactment late in the fourth quarter of 2014. the net incremental cash provided by other assets and liabilities for 2015 was also due to the recognition of previously deferred catalyst instrument costs under the catalyst one introductory offer during 2015. we have historically experienced proportionally lower net cash flows from operating activities during the first quarter and proportionally higher cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of the year and for the annual period driven primarily by payments related to annual employee incentive programs in the first quarter following the year for which the bonuses were earned and the seasonality of vector-borne disease testing, which has historically resulted in significant increases in accounts receivable balances during the first quarter of the year. investing activities . cash used by investing activities was $138.7 million during 2017 as compared to $90.8 million used during 2016, and $308.4 million used during 2015. the increase in cash used by investing activities during 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to the increase in net purchases of marketable securities, as well as increases in acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets and capital spending. the decrease in cash used by investing activities during 2016 as compared to 2015 was due primarily to the initial purchase of marketable securities that began in 2015. during 2018, in connection with the passage of the tax act in the fourth quarter of 2017, we intend to liquidate our marketable securities and use the cash to partially pay down our credit facility. our total capital expenditure plan for 201 8 is estimated to be approximately $ 140 million, which includes the expansion of our headquarters, the relocation and expansion of our german core reference laboratory, other capital investments in manufacturing and reference laboratory equipment, investments in internal use software and information technology infrastructure , and the renovation and expansion of our facilities and reference laboratories. financing activities. cash used by financing activities was $208.0 million during 2017 as compared to $222.2 million used during 2016, and $ 101.0 million used during 2015. the decrease in cash used by financing activities during 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to fewer repurchases of our common stock . the increase in cash used by financing activities during 2016 as compared to 2015 was due to the issuance of senior notes in 2015, as well as a decrease in cash used to repurchase our common stock. in june 2015, we entered into an amended and restated multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the 2015 amended agreement ), among the company, prudential investment management, inc. ( prudential ) and the accredited institutional purchasers named therein, which amends and restates the note purchase and private shelf agreement dated july 21, 2014. pursuant to the 2015 amended agreement, we issued and sold through a private placement a principal amount of 88.9 million of 1.785% series c senior notes due june 18, 2025 (the 2025 series c notes ). we used the net proceeds from this issuance and sale of the 2025 series c notes for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. in december 2014, we entered into a multi-currency note purchase and private shelf agreement (the metlife agreement ) with accredited institutional purchasers named therein pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell $75 million of 3.25% series a senior notes having a seven-year term (the 2022 notes ) and $75 million 78 of 3.72% series b senior notes having a twelve-year term (the 2027 notes ). in february 2015, we issued and sold the 2022 notes and the 2027 notes pursuant to the metlife agreement. we used the net proceeds from these issuance and sales for general corporate purposes, including repaying amounts outstanding under our credit facility. cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock decreased by $ 21.5 million during the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 . cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock decreased by $ 97 . 9 million during the year ended december 31, 201 6, as compared to 2015 . from the inception of our share repurchase program in august 1999 to december 31, 2017 , we have repurchased 63.0 million shares. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we purchased 1 . 75 million shares for an aggregate cost of $ 270.3 million, as compared to purchases of 3 . 1 million shares for an aggregate cost of $ 313 . 1 million during 2016 and purchases of 5 . 7 million shares for an aggregate cost of $ 406 . 4 million during 201 5 . we believe that the repurchase of our common stock is a favorable means of returning value to our shareholders and we also repurchase our stock to offset the dilutive effect of our share-based compensation programs. repurchases of our common stock may vary depending upon the level of other investing activities and the share price. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information about our share repurchases. as noted above, we refinanced our existing $700 million credit facility during december 2015, increasing the principal amount thereunder to $850 million. the credit facility matures on december 4, 2020 and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. although the credit facility does not mature until december 2020, all amounts borrowed under the terms of the credit facility are reflected in the current liabilities section in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because the credit facility contains a subjective material adverse event clause, which allows the debt holders to call the loans under the credit facility if we fail to notify the syndicate of such an event. applicable interest rates on borrowings under the credit facility generally range from 1.250 to 1.375 percentage points above the london interban k offered rate or the canadian d ollar-denominated bankers acceptance rate, based on our leverage ratio, or the prevailing prime rate plus a maximum spread of up to 0.375 percent, based on our leverage ratio. net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in more cash provided of $ 6.0 million during the year ended december 31, 201 7, as compared to 2016 . at december 31, 201 7 , we had $ 655.0 million outstanding under the credit facility. net borrowing and repayment activity under the credit facility resulted in more cash provided of $1 4.0 million during the year ended december 31, 201 6 , compared to 2015 . at december 31, 201 6 , we had $ 611 .0 million outstanding under the credit facility. the general availability of funds under the credit facility was further reduced by $1.0 million for a letter of credit that was issued in connection with claims under our workers compensation policy. the credit facility contains affirmative, negative , and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of subsidiaries of the company, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates , and certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations . the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization , and share-based compensation not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility. the obligations under the credit facility may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness, cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness and a change of control default. since december 2013, we have issued and sold through private placements senior notes having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $600 million pursuant to certain note purchase agreements (collectively, the senior note agreements ). the senior note agreements contain affirmative, negative , and financial covenants customary for agreements of this type. the negative covenants include restrictions on liens, indebtedness of our subsidiaries, priority indebtedness, fundamental changes, investments, transactions with affiliates, certain restrictive agreements and violations of laws and regulations . see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our senior notes. sho u ld we elect to prepay the senior notes, such aggregate prepayment will include the applicable make-whole amount(s), as defined within the applicable senior note agreements. additionally, in the event of a change in 79 control of the company , or upon the disposition of certain assets of the company the proceeds of which are not reinvested (as defined in the senior note agreements), we may be required to prepay all or a portion of the senior notes. the obligations under the senior notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the applicable senior note agreement, each of which includes customary events of default including payment defaults, defaults in the performance of the affirmative, negative and financial covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events related to employee pension benefit plans under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, the failure to pay specified indebtedness and cross-acceleration to specified indebtedness. effect of currency translation on cash. the n et effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates are related to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. these changes will fluctuate each year as the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the value of the foreign currencies change. a currency value depends on many factors, including interest rates, the country debt levels and strength of economy. off balance sheet arrangements. we have no off-balance sheet arrangements or variable interest entities except for letters of credit and third party guarantees, as reflected in note 11 and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017, included in this annual report on form 10-k, respectively. financial covenant. the financial covenant is a consolidated leverage ratio test that requires our ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization , and share-based compensation, as defined in the senior note agreements, not to exceed 3.5-to-1. at december 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants of the senior note agreements. the following details our consolidated leverage ratio calculation as of december 31, 2017 ( in thousands ): december trailing 12 months adjusted ebitda: 2017 net income attributable to stockholders $ 263,144 interest expense 37,225 provision for income taxes 117,788 depreciation and amortization 83,140 share-based compensation expense 23,517 adjusted ebitda $ 524,814 december debt to adjusted ebitda ratio: 2017 line of credit $ 655,000 long-term debt 606,075 total debt 1,261,075 acquisition-related consideration payable 3,537 capitalized leases 419 u.s. gaap change - deferred financing costs 492 gross debt 1,265,523 gross debt to adjusted ebitda ratio 2.41 cash and cash equivalents (187,675) marketable securities (284,255) net debt $ 793,593 net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio 1.51 80 other commitments, contingencies and guarantees under our w orkers compensation insurance policies for u.s. employees, we have retained the first $ 0.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, in claim liability per incident with aggregate maximum claim liabilities per year of $2.5 million, $2.6 million , and $3.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. workers compensation expense recognized during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and our respective liability for such claims as of december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was not material. claims incurred during the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, are relatively undeveloped as of december 31, 2017. therefore, it is possible that we could incur additional healthcare and wage indemnification costs beyond those previously recognized up to our aggregate liability for each of the respective claim years. for the years ended on or prior to december 31, 2015, based on our retained claim liability per incident and our aggregate claim liability per year, our maximum liability in excess of the amounts deemed probable and previously recognized, is not material as of december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2017, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $1.0 million to the insurance companies as security for these claims in connection with these policies . under our current employee healthcare insurance policy for u.s. employees, we retained claims liability risk per incident up to $1 million per year in 2017, $0.45 million per year in 2016 and $0.43 million per year in 2015. we recognized employee healthcare claim expense of $47 . 2 million during the year ended december 31, 2017, $40.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2016, and $34.6 million during the year ended december 31, 2015, which represents actual claims paid and an estimate of our liability for the uninsured portion of employee healthcare obligations that have been incurred but not paid. should employee health insurance claims exceed our estimated liability, we would have further obligations. our estimated liability for healthcare claims that have been incurred but not paid were $4.2 million as of december 31, 2017, $4.0 million as of december 31, 2016, and $4.8 million as of december 31, 2015. we have total acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities outstanding primarily related to the achievement of certain revenue milestones of $3.0 million at december 31, 201 7 , as compared to $ 0 .9 million at december 31, 201 6 , and $ 5 . 9 million at december 31, 201 5 . these contractual obligations are not reflected in the table below. we are contractually obligated to make the following payments in the years below: contractual obligations (in thousands) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 747,461 $ 20,385 $ 40,769 $ 161,387 $ 524,920 operating leases 95,929 19,233 27,661 16,600 32,435 purchase obligations (2) 214,539 184,564 24,003 3,872 2,100 minimum royalty payments 1,736 528 439 187 582 u.s. deemed repatriation tax 48,783 3,903 7,805 7,805 29,270 total contractual cash obligations $ 1,108,448 $ 228,613 $ 100,677 $ 189,851 $ 589,307 (1) long-term debt amounts include interest payments associated with long-term debt. (2) purchase obligations include agreements and purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities, pricing, and approximate timing of purchase transactions. these commitments do not reflect u nrecognized tax benefits of $ 21.4 million and $ 2.2 million of deferred compensation liabilities as of december 31, 201 7, as the timing of recognitio n is uncertain. see note 12 to th e consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits. not reflected in the contractual obligation table above are agreements with third parties that we have entered into in the ordinary course of business under which we are obligated to indemnify such third parties for and against various risks and losses. the precise terms of such indemnities vary with the nature of the agreement. in many cases, we limit the maximum amount of our indemnification obligations, but in some cases those obligations may be theoretically unlimited. we have not incurred material expenses in discharging any of these indemnification obligations, and based on our analysis of the nature of the risks involved, we believe that the fair value of these agreements is minimal. accordingly, we did not record any liabilities for these obligations at december 31, 201 7 and 201 6, and do not anticipate any future payments for these guarantees . 81 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s. or in u.s. dollars, but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended december 31, 2017, approximately 21 percent of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 21 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016, and 20 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for three of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, singapore and dubai, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency exchange impacts are comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2018, excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 1 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce revenue by approximately $8 million and operating income by approximately $4 million. additionally, our foreign currency hedge contracts in place as of december 31, 2017, would provide incremental offsetting gains of approximately $2 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. at our current foreign exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate that the effect of a weaker u.s. dollar will have a favorable effect on our operating results by increasing our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share in the year ending december 31, 2018, by approximately $46 million, $14 million, and $0.12 per share, respectively. this favorable impact includes foreign currency hedging activity, which is expected to decrease total company operating profit by approximately $7 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.06 in the year ending december 31, 2018. the actual impact of changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we transact may materially differ from our expectations described above. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $1.22, the british pound at $1.40, the canadian dollar at $0.79, and the australian dollar at $0.78; and the japanese yen at 111, the chinese renminbi at rmb 6.45, and the brazilian real at r$3.21 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2018. the following table presents the foreign currency exchange impacts on our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share for the years december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, as compared to the respective prior periods: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 revenue impact $ 6,615 $ (14,105) $ (89,692) operating profit impact, excluding hedge activity $ 2,542 $ (6,921) $ (38,286) hedge gains - prior year (3,620) (20,879) (3,821) hedge gains - current year 27 3,620 20,879 hedging activity impact (3,593) (17,259) 17,058 operating profit impact, including hedge activity $ (1,051) $ (24,180) $ (21,228) diluted earnings per share impact, including hedge activity $ (0.01) $ (0.20) $ (0.16) the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a hedging instrument qualifies 82 for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into other foreign currency exchange contracts or foreign-denominated debt issuances to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific balance sheet exposures, including net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding euro-denominated notes that we designated as a hedge of our euro net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2017. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions. as a result, no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales is to employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, with the exception of certain emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge our exposure. we hedge approximately 85 percent of the estimated exposure from intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar, and swiss franc. we have additional unhedged foreign currency exposures related to foreign services and emerging markets where it is not practical to hedge. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchases and sales totaled $176.5 million at december 31, 2017, and $175.9 million at december 31, 2016 . at december 31, 2017, we had $5.2 million of net unrealized losses on foreign currency exchange contracts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax expense. we have a credit facility with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on december 4, 2020, and requires no scheduled prepayments before that date. although the credit facility does not mature until december 4, 2020, all individual borrowings under the terms of the credit facility have a stated term between 30 and 180 days. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2017, were $655 million at a weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.81 percent. based on amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2017, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1 percent would increase interest expense by approximately $6.6 million on an annualized basis. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we purchased marketable debt securities, which are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet included in this annual report on form 10-k. the fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities is subject to changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2017, we estimate that a 1 percent increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our marketable securities portfolio by approximately $1.5 million.risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public and they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. 5 part i item 1. business company overview idexx was incorporated in delaware in 1983. we develop, manufacture, and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprised of instruments, consumables, and rapid assay test kits; veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services; practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinaries; health monitoring, biological materials testing, laboratory diagnostic instruments, and services used by the biomedical research community; diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry, and dairy; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our purpose guides our strategy: to be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and shareholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. description of business by segment we operate primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ); water quality products ( water ); and diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, and improve dairy efficiency, which we refer to as livestock, poultry and dairy ( lpd ). our other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ) with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. the performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 39 % of our overall revenue. see part i, item 1a. risk factors , part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and "part ii, item 8, note 16 . segment reporting " to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2018 , included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information about our segments and revenue from customers outside of the u.s. 6 we believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by idexx, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering provide a unique competitive advantage by giving veterinarians the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. we believe that with the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and effectively communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. we believe that these capabilities, enabled by the use of idexx products and services, improve the financial health of the veterinary practice. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians' diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients' data from all of idexx's diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision-making. in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarians and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient's care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. customers have activated vetconnect plus in over 80 countries. 7 in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis, and coagulation analyzers, as well as associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate, and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we have three blood and urine chemistry analyzers that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. we currently sell two of these chemistry analyzers, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer. we previously sold the other chemistry analyzer, which is the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, and continue to support that product as part of the catalyst platform. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho's dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at our roswell, georgia facility, as well as certain slides that are manufactured at our westbrook, maine facility. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein, and many others. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels, called clips. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease. the catalyst analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital, fructosamine, total thyroxine ( t 4 ), c-reactive protein, and sdma, as part of one run. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum, and urine. in addition, the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run a test to measure phenobarbital levels in blood, allowing veterinarians to adjust anticonvulsant medication more quickly and efficiently . our fructosamine test helps veterinarians to diagnose and manage canine and feline diabetes mellitus, helping to assess insulin treatments, and adjust insulin dosages. we launched our total t 4 test globally for use on the catalyst one and catalyst dx analyzers during 2015. t 4 testing is essential to assessing and managing thyroid function and is an accepted standard for baseline testing for both sick pets and preventive care in senior pets. we launched the catalyst sdma test globally in 2018, which allows our customers to use the catalyst one and catalyst dx analyzers to screen for sdma, an innovative proprietary test that detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. the catalyst sdma test is also available in a combo kit with t 4 . the catalyst one analyzer, launched in november 2014, is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer. the catalyst one analyzer currently offers all the same tests as the catalyst dx, including an expanded menu of 32 tests. we also have two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by idexx at our roswell, georgia facility. sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab instruments. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the first and only in-clinic analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence, and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability 8 to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx analyzer, our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx analyzer provides up to 26 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils, nucleated red blood cells, and reticulocyte hemoglobin for a more complete picture of a patient's health. the procyte dx is validated for many animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig, mini pig, llama, alpaca, camel, sheep, goat, dolphin, and hamster). the lasercyte and lasercyte dx analyzers are the only other point of care hematology analyzers in the veterinary market able to report absolute reticulocyte counts. immunoassay testing instruments . during 2014, we launched the snap pro analyzer, which automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run, and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results with the pet owner on the snap pro analyzer screen, or via vetconnect plus. in addition, the snap pro analyzer improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. in january 2017, we launched proread for the snap pro analyzer. proread is a software upgrade that enables the snap pro analyzer to interpret the test results. with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets, and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . in april 2016, we launched the sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer in north america. in the fourth quarter of 2016 we launched the sedivue dx analyzer in the uk and australia. during the first half of 2017, we continued our international launch of the sedivue dx analyzer to include other parts of europe and new zealand. we continued to further our international deployment of sedivue dx in 2018. the sedivue dx analyzer is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis. the sedivue dx analyzer brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform an urine sediment analysis in approximately 3 minutes. the sedivue dx analyzer uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinically relevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record. the sedivue dx analyzer leverages its algorithmic software and machine-learning, a type of artificial intelligence, to better identify abnormalities with each result generated, which we refer to as neural network 3.0. the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis from idexx ua strips and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers, and thus, provides reference laboratory information management system capability. ivls securely connects to the internet, and in this way, enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services, remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus. we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst one, catalyst dx, lasercyte, lasercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers, snap pro analyzer, snapshot dx analyzer and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid assays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer or activated and captured automatically by the snap pro analyzer and interpreted using proread, as discussed above. the principal snap rapid assay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : snap 4dx plus, which tests for the six vector-borne diseases; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap heartworm rt, which tests for heartworm; 9 snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which tests for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and snap lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the northern hemisphere. single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to aids in humans), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in many developed markets worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, new zealand, south africa, south korea, and brazil, through a network of 73 laboratories. we have reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; louisville, kentucky and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large logistics hubs of major air cargo carriers. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes, and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the northern hemisphere. in 2015, we launched the idexx sdma test in north america, an innovative proprietary kidney test that detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. during 2016, we launched the idexx sdma test in all of the major european countries and australia, followed by a full international launch of the idexx sdma test during the remainder of 2016. in 2015, we also launched hookworm and roundworm antigen tests to all fecal panels that already included the whipworm antigen test. these intestinal parasite panels detect the presence of intestinal worms often undiagnosed by current methods, including finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine, and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine, and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. our diagnostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to biomedical research customers in north america, europe, and asia. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems veterinary software and services . we develop, market, and sell practice management systems, including hardware, software and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, 10 scheduling (including for boarding and grooming), client communication, billing, and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone, dvmax, idexx animana and idexx neo. idexx neo, available in north america, and idexx animana, available in europe, are cloud-based practice management systems. we also support several other practice management systems installed with our customers, including better choice, vpm, vetlink, and beefree. our practice management services include payment solutions, data backup &amp; recovery and petdetect boarding collars. with our smart flow cloud offering, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2018, we are able to improve overall patient management and workflow optimization through coordination and tracking of every step of a patient during a hospital stay. smart flow works in conjunction with major veterinary practice management systems, including cornerstone, dvmax, idexx animana, idexx neo, and certain third-party practice management systems. in addition, we offer cloud-based client communication and preventive care plan management software designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. we commercially launched pet health network pro in 2013, which is a subscription-based cloud service that permits veterinarians to provide online communication and education to pet owners before, during and after each patient visit, thus strengthening the loyalty between a practice and its clients. further, veterinarians can share vetconnect plus testing results directly with pet owners via pet health network pro. we also offer pet health network 3d, an educational subscription-based service that replaces cumbersome plastic anatomy models with engaging, three-dimensional anatomical animations on a desktop or mobile device. in 2014, we acquired petly plans, a cloud-based software solution for veterinary practices to customize, manage, and monitor a range of monthly payment preventive care plans for their pet owner clients. petly plans complements the pet health network suite of client marketing services by making it easier for practices to increase access to the best care and offer plans that spread the cost of that care, including examinations, vaccines, and diagnostics, over the course of the year. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. with our acquisition of rvetlink in june 2017, we now also offer a comprehensive referral management solution for specialty care hospitals that streamlines the referral process between primary care and specialty care veterinarians. general practice veterinarians often refer patients to board-certified specialists for advanced care in areas such as cardiology, oncology, dermatology, ophthalmology, surgery, or internal medicine. rvetlink automates the time-consuming process of sharing medical records and images and sending notifications to facilitate generalist-specialist collaboration in the delivery of care. rvetlink's cloud technology integrates with our other major specialty hospital management systems, including idexx cornerstone software and idexx dvmax software. diagnostic imaging systems . our diagnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three diagnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the idexx imagevue dr50, the idexx imagevue dr40, and the idexx imagevue cr20. our newest radiography system, the idexx imagevue dr50, was launched in june 2016 and enables low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality images, a component in reducing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. the idexx imagevue dr50 system also offers wireless capabilities for flexibility in patient positioning. our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software called idexx-pacs, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. idexx web pacs is our cloud-based software-as-a-service ( saas ) offering for viewing, accessing, storing, and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, idexx neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. idexx web pacs updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. the software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners. idexx i-vision mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with idexx digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. 11 our principal products are the colilert, colilert-18, and colisure tests, which detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater, and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste, and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa, and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer's ear , and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems. our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. in july 2016, we launched legiolert, a simple culture method test for the detection of legionella pneumophila, the most common legionella species in water, and the primary cause of legionnaires' disease. the legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert, heterotrophic plate count (hpc) or legiolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. in 2015, we launched the quanti-tray sealer plus, a next generation instrument of the previously available quanti-tray sealer 2x. these instruments are used with the quanti-tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts, and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. 12 we sell diagnostic tests, services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve dairy efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers, and processors. our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine, leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth, and vulnerability to secondary infections. our principal dairy products use our snap test platform and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product lines are snap beta-lactam st and snapduo beta-tetra st, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in june 2016, we launched the rapid visual pregnancy test for cattle, which is a point-of-care test that can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding. this test provides a quick and accurate identifier using whole blood samples that enables veterinarians to optimize value-added medical consulting services while on farm visits. 13 other opti medical through opti medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer, which launched in 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication, and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma, and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. other activities we own certain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are included in the other segment. marketing and distribution we market, sell, and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales, and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in all major regions including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe, middle east, and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements, and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide, generally through our direct sales force. we market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s., canada, europe, and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through selected independent distributors. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business segments. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $117.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , or 5.3 % of our consolidated revenue, $109.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , or 5.5 % of our consolidated revenue and $101.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 , or 5.7% of our consolidated revenue. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company's inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings, strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. 14 important patents and licenses include: an exclusive license from tulane university to patents that expire beginning in 2019 and continue into 2020 relating to reagents for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap products that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap products that expire beginning in 2019 and continuing into 2022; a patent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables that expire beginning in 2023 and continuing into 2029; patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire beginning in 2026 and continuing into 2035; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of sdma that expire in 2029. in addition, we have pending u.s. patent applications concerning reagents and methods for detecting sdma. if such applications are granted, we expect the associated patents would have expirations ranging from 2036 to 2038. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to us, a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include publications, including peer-reviewed third-party studies, that demonstrate the accuracy of our products; our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; our online ordering platform that enables direct ordering of (including establishing automatic reorder schedules for) our consumables, tests and other products by our customers; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our investment in diagnostic innovations that results in new product offerings that often are patentable and that expand the test menu for our in-clinic instruments and/or reference laboratory business; and our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2018, and are expected to expire in 2019 and beyond, the expiration of these patents, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company's financial position or future operations. in addition, we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights, or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties. we rely on third parties in our supply chain to supply us, and our direct suppliers, with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases, these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. from time to time, we seek to qualify alternative suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include certain catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine, t4, crp, and sdma slides), vetlyte consumables, lasercyte and lasercyte dx consumables, vettest, vetautoread and procyte dx analyzers and consumables, sedivue dx urinalysis instrument and consumables, and components of our snap pro mobile device. 15 vettest and certain catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire in december of 2031. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market, excluding the eu, other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2032, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials, and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock, and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap products and certain livestock and poultry testing kits are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that either party may terminate with 24 months prior written notice. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain a significant backlog of orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human and animal health pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, unique product innovations, fully integrated technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca inc., a division of mars inc.; zoetis inc. (including its wholly-owned subsidiary abaxis, inc.); heska corporation; samsung electronics co., ltd., and fujifilm north america corporation. we also compete in certain international markets with zoetis, fujifilm holdings corporation, samsung electronics, arkray, inc., and bionote, inc. water, livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our 16 competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multibillion-dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america and europe. our largest competitor in north america and the u.k. is covetrus, inc., which was formed by the merger of henry schein, inc.'s animal health business and direct vet marketing, inc. (d/b/a vets first choice) in february 2019; we expect that following this merger, covetrus will continue henry schein's animal health business, which offers several systems and leverages its animal health distribution business in sales and service. we also compete with numerous focused smaller companies throughout the markets in which we offer veterinary software, including those offering cloud-based solutions. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, registrations, manufacturing, import, export, distribution, marketing, and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests kits for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval, including for the purpose of obtaining product registration, as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with importing and marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, canada, brazil, the netherlands, and many other countries. we are also required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our lpd manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the fda under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda's current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled, or misbranded under the fdc act. in the eu, our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are not subject to regulation under the european medical device directive or the in vitro diagnostic directive, which are both strictly applicable to human use products. however, these systems are subject to the requirements of the electromagnetic compatibility directive, which applies to all electronic or electrical products capable of causing or being disturbed by electromagnetic interference and requires european conformity marking on our analyzers. in addition, we anticipate our analyzers will be subject to the requirements of the restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, beginning in july 2019. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , 17 enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class i and/or class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda's quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. the european union regulates and restricts the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these requirements include the biocidal products regulation, which may require the use of approved biocides in our products prior to being used or sold in the european union, the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union, and the restriction of hazardous substance or rohs, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export laws and regulations, including u.s. import and export control and sanctions laws and laws and regulations governing the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc, and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees as of february 6, 2019, we had approximately 8,377 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references to our website in this annual report on form 10-k are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com. 18 item 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating our company and our business. our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties and actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this annual report on form 10-k. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere herein. any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. because our business lines are highly attractive, they are also highly competitive. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies within this competitive environment could have a material negative impact on our future growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive, and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants given our performance and the market's strong growth and returns. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing, and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related recurring sales of consumable products, services, and accessories; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services for both our reference laboratories and in-clinic applications that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of the information and transactions of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; maintaining premium pricing, including by effectively implementing price increases, for our differentiated products and services through, among other things, effective communication and promotion of the value of our products and services in an environment where many of our competitors promote, market and sell lesser offerings at prices lower than ours; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information, and resources that enable them to grow their practices and the utilization of our diagnostic products and services, through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of reference laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand, develop, and advance the productivity of our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. and international markets in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategies; attracting, developing, and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy, which is challenging due to the increasingly competitive and tight labor markets in which we operate; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and continuing to effectively manage our growth and expansion on a global scale through, among other things, designing and implementing cost-effective improvements to our processes, procedures, and infrastructure. 19 if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components for our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with such suppliers on reasonable terms, breach, or termination by suppliers of their contractual obligations, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, disruption to suppliers' business, including work stoppages, suppliers' failure to comply with complex and changing regulations, and third-party financial failure. any problems with our suppliers and associated disruptions to our supply chain could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs, or damage our reputation with our customers, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of our customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. disruption to our supply chain could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices; the imposition of regulations, trade protection measures, tariffs, duties, import/export restrictions, quotas or embargoes on key components; labor stoppages; transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods; the unavailability of raw materials; severe weather conditions; natural disasters; climate change-related events; civil unrest, war, terrorism or other geopolitical developments, including the united kingdom's june 2016 vote and formal notice in march 2017 to leave the european union; computer viruses, physical or electronic breaches, or other information system disruptions or security breaches; and disruptions in utility and other services. for more information regarding the risks presented by natural and other disasters and system disruptions and security breaches from cyberattacks, see natural and other disasters, information technology system failures and network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks could adversely affect our business below. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; vetlyte electrolyte consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, and vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer and consumables; image capture plates used in our diagnostic imaging systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzers, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, and water testing products. even where products and materials are available from alternate suppliers, if any becomes unavailable to us for any reason we likely would incur additional costs and delays in identifying or qualifying replacement materials and there can be no assurance that replacements would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. in certain cases, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval to use alternative suppliers, and this process of approval could delay production of our products or development of product candidates indefinitely. we seek to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, when possible, by entering into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable or fixed prices. however, suppliers may decline to enter into long-term contracts for any number of reasons, which would require us to purchase products via short-term contracts or on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have long-term contracts will always fulfill their obligations under those contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, or if such sole and single source suppliers are unable to obtain the components or other materials required to manufacture the products, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. 20 our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells, and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples, and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria and regulatory requirements. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, either of which could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , approximately 39 % of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including, but not limited to, disruptions in transportation of our products or our supply chain; fluctuations in oil prices; increased border protection and restriction on travel; the differing product and service needs of foreign customers; difficulties in building, staffing and managing foreign operations (including a geographically dispersed workforce); differing protection of intellectual property; trade protection measures, quotas, embargoes, import/export restrictions, tariffs, duties, and regulatory and licensing requirements; natural and other disasters; ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's regulatory, economic or political conditions, including as a result of the united kingdom's june 2016 vote and formal notice in march 2017 to leave the european union; other unfavorable geopolitical conditions; security concerns; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. various u.s. and foreign government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business as a global business, we sell products and services in more than 175 countries and operate in an increasingly complex legal and regulatory environment. in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of certain of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda, or the epa. our diagnostic tests for animal health applications that involve the detection of infectious diseases, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products as well as the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa, as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa, before they can be used by customers in the u.s. delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the manufacture, import, and sale of our products, as well as our research and development processes, are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. for example, the european union regulates the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these regulations include the biocidal products regulation, which require approval for the use of certain biocides in our products prior to being manufactured, used, or sold in the european union, the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union, and the restriction of hazardous substances which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products and may reduce or eliminate the availability of certain parts and components used in our products and services in the event our suppliers are unable to comply with the applicable 21 regulations in a timely and cost-effective manner. any redesign or reformulation or restricted supply of parts and components may negatively affect the availability or performance of our products and services, add testing lead-times for products and reformulated products, reduce our margins, result in additional costs, or have other similar effects. in addition, the costs to comply with these regulations may be significant. any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. these legal and regulatory requirements are complex and subject to change, and we continue to evaluate their impact. in addition, some foreign governments require us to register our products, and these product registration requirements, which vary among the applicable jurisdictions and change from time to time, are often complex and require us to engage in lengthy and costly processes. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any product registration required by one or more foreign governments. any inability to obtain or maintain a required product registration in a jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to market and sell the applicable product in that jurisdiction, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations, as well as the associated legal and political environments, concerning, among other things, the importation and exportation of products; our business practices in the u.s. and abroad, such as anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and anti-competition laws; and immigration and travel restrictions. these legal, regulatory, and political requirements and environments differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements and adjusting to changing legal and political environments are significant and likely to increase in the future. any failure by us to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or to adjust to changing legal and political environments, could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions; product recalls; suspensions or discontinuations of, or limitations or restrictions on, our ability to design, manufacture, market, import, export or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. any of these could negatively impact our business. increased competition from and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services, and we expect that future competition may become even more intense as new products, services and technologies become available and new competitors enter the market. our competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market in the united states and abroad include companies that develop, manufacture, and sell veterinary diagnostic tests and commercial veterinary reference laboratories, certain large and well-funded animal health pharmaceutical companies, as well as corporate hospital chains that operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals, such as vca inc. (formerly named vca antech, inc.), which was acquired in 2017 by mars, incorporated, another operator of corporate hospital chains. while we believe that our reference laboratory service offerings are competitively differentiated due to our proprietary products and services, such as the idexx sdma test and vetconnect plus, there can be no assurance that increased consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers would not have a negative impact on our ability to compete successfully. for more information regarding the risks presented by consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers, see consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business below. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets through the development of innovative new technology, the acquisition of rights to use existing technologies or the use of existing technologies when patents protecting such existing technologies expire. new or existing competitors may introduce new, innovative, and competitive products and services, which could be superior, or be perceived by our customers to be superior, to our products and services or lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products or services. while an important aspect of our strategy is to continue, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new and innovative products and services, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop such products and services or that those products or services will be superior to our competitors' products or services or otherwise achieve market acceptance. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services perceived in the eyes of customers as similar, at substantially lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. certain of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also 22 have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than us, as well as greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business veterinarians are our primary customers for our cag products and services, and the veterinary services industry in the u.s. and abroad has been consolidating over time at an accelerating rate in recent years. in the united states, the number of owners of veterinary hospitals has been declining, and an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include mars, incorporated (owner of banfield pet hospitals, blue pearl veterinary partners, pet partners and vca inc.), and national veterinary associates, and are joined by dozens of smaller consolidators. a similar trend exists in other regions such as canada, europe, australia, new zealand, brazil, and china. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally attempt to shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies, and there can be no assurance that hospitals that otherwise become affiliated with these companies would not shift all or a portion of their testing to such reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies or those that establish other affiliations with these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. in addition, changes and trends in local dairy, poultry, or other food markets around the world could negatively affect the related production markets resulting in a decline in demand for our testing products. declines in testing for any reason, including the reasons described above, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we 23 may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. natural and other disasters, information technology system failures and network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks could adversely affect our business our business and results of operations could be negatively affected by certain factors beyond our control, such as natural disasters and/or climate change-related events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, and floods); civil unrest; negative geopolitical conditions and developments; war, terrorism, or other man-made disasters; and information technology system failures, network disruptions and cybersecurity breaches and attacks. any of these events could result in, among other things, damage to or the temporary closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities or reference laboratories (damage to one of our facilities or the manufacturing equipment we use could be costly and may require substantial lead-time to repair or replace); damage to or closure of one or more facilities of our third-party business partners or suppliers on which we rely; a temporary lack of an adequate work force in one or more markets; an interruption in power supply; a temporary or long-term disruption in our supply chain (including a disruption to our ability to obtain critical components for the manufacture of our products); a temporary disruption in our ability to deliver (or delays in the delivery of) our products or services; and short- or long-term damage to our customers' businesses (which would adversely impact customer demand for our products and services). for more information regarding the risks presented by disruption to our suppliers' operations and supply chain, see our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results above. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; tokyo, japan; and leipzig, germany. interruption of operations at any of these facilities due to the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our third-party business partners' and suppliers' information systems, to provide access to our web-based products and services, keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. although we employ system backup measures and engage in information system redundancy planning and processes, such measures, planning and processes, as well as our current disaster recovery plan, may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems and our business partners' and suppliers' information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses and malware, through the internet (including via devices and applications connected to the internet), email attachments and persons with access to these information systems, such as our employees or third parties with whom we do business. as information systems and the use of software and related applications by us, our business partners, suppliers, and customers become more cloud-based and connected to the internet of things, there has been an increase in global cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, including more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks that pose a risk to the security of our information systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data and information. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks and also offer products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things, such as our connected devices (e.g., idexx vetlab instruments). any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored thereon could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. while we have implemented network security and internal control measures, especially for the purpose of protecting our connected products and services from cyberattacks, and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack, or security breach and, as such, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains. if we or our business partners or suppliers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, or our customers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach via any of our connected products and services, it could result in a period of shutdown of information systems during which we (or our customers) may not be able to operate, the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement, potential liability for damages to our customers, reputational damage and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and profitability. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of data or information (including any of our confidential or proprietary information or personal data or information) as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence 24 in our products and services, damage our ability to develop (and protect our rights to) our proprietary technologies and adversely affect our business. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we also maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products, or our services do not comply with our global privacy policy or evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection when we collect and use personal data in our operations, we apply state of the art data management and security practices, and we post on our website a comprehensive global privacy policy and cookie statement concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personal data. we only use the personal data that we collect as described in our global privacy policy and customer agreements. our global privacy policy informs our customers, potential customers, vendors, pet owners, website visitors and any other current or potential idexx partner that we will not share their personal information with third parties unless required by law or as reasonably necessary with trusted third parties working for or with us to fulfill or administer orders or contracts made with idexx or to manage our relationship and marketing activities with the applicable customer. we collect and use personal data in a variety of ways. we offer products and services that collect and use personal data provided by client practices and individuals, including practice management systems for veterinary practices, online client communication tools and services, vetconnect plus and two-way integration technology. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various websites and collect contact and other personal data from our customers and visitors to our websites. the privacy, security, retention, sharing and use of the personal data described above are subject to expanding and increasingly complex laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad, some of which impose significant compliance obligations. some of these laws and regulations apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure, sharing and security of personal data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, contact information, and sensitive personal data. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent revisions and differing interpretations and have generally become more stringent over time. in many cases, the federal, state, and international laws described above apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. for example, we are subject to the european union's general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which became effective in may 2018. the gdpr imposes more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements, and could subject us to increased liability for violations. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal data can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators in the u.s. and abroad to expand or adopt more stringent regulations and laws. while we strive to comply with our posted global privacy policy and contractual obligations, as well as all applicable privacy-related laws and regulations (including the gdpr), any failure or perceived failure by us, the third parties with whom we work or our products and services to so comply could result in damage to our reputation or legal proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal data or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, could damage our reputation and harm our business. in addition, the laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection continue to develop, are subject to differing interpretations and may be applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may be inconsistent with our current global privacy policy and data protection practices. the costs associated with compliance with these evolving legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future and as a result may cause us to incur substantial costs, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business or limit our ability to use and share personal data. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business we are a global business, with 39 % of our revenue during the year ended december 31, 2018 , attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside of the u.s. any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, australian dollar 25 and brazilian real, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales and profits that are made in those currencies. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar has a greater adverse effect on the profits from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars that are exported to international markets and a lesser effect on profits from foreign sourced products and services due to a natural hedge from international expenses denominated in the corresponding foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , approximately 22 % of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 21% for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 . a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars as well as affect our overall competitiveness in international markets. the accumulated impacts from any continued, longer-term growth in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see "part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 . hedging instruments" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar, and swiss franc. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since our hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. pet owners generally pay cash out of pocket for health care services for their pets from veterinary practices. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. 26 we sell many products through distributors, which presents risks that could negatively affect our operating results some of our product sales in international markets occur through third-party distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to promote and create demand for our products. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors' products and promote our competitors' products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling, and supporting our products or to maintain certain inventory levels, and changes in our distributors' inventory levels, as compared to comparable prior periods, could negatively impact our revenue growth rates. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. while we maintain a rigorous distribution compliance program, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business and reputation, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failure to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, any of which could have a negative effect on our operating results. future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities the nature of our international operations subjects us to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in jurisdictions around the world. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. additionally, tax rules governing cross-border activities are continually subject to modification as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ) was enacted in the u.s. on december 22, 2017 and includes significant changes to the u.s. federal corporate tax system. effective january 1, 2018, the 2017 tax act reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, and transitioned from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. the 2017 tax act introduced new provisions including the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat'), expanded bonus depreciation and changed deductions for executive compensation and interest expense. the u.s. department of treasury continues to issue regulations related to the 2017 tax act which may increase or decrease our tax liability in future periods. for example, in january 2019, the u.s. department of treasury issued final regulations related to the deemed repatriation tax. see "part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 13. income taxes" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the impact of the 2017 tax act. we have received tax rulings from various governments that have jurisdictional authority over our operations. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such agreements, or if they expire or are renewed on less favorable terms, the result could negatively impact our future earnings. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings in the netherlands and switzerland are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger 27 competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative, and financial covenants. our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; timing of regulatory approvals and licenses; litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors' product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as other general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. the following factors, in addition to other factors described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this form 10-k, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: changes in customer needs, expectations or trends and our ability to maintain relationships with key customers; our ability to implement our business strategy; our stock repurchase program; changes in our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt; public announcements (including the timing of these announcements) regarding our business, financial performance and prospects or new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us; 28 trading activity in our stock, including portfolio transactions in our stock by us, our executive officers and directors, and significant stockholders or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which we may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index; short-interest in our common stock, which could be significant from time to time; our inclusion in, or removal from, any stock indices; investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; whether or not we meet earnings estimates of securities analysts who follow us; and general financial, domestic, international, economic, and market conditions, including overall fluctuations in the u.s. equity markets. in addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our foreign currency hedging activities (see "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our future income tax expense could also be affected by changes in the mix of earnings, including as a result of changes in the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to currencies in countries with differing statutory tax rates. see part i, item 1a. risk factors included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding tax impacts. effects of economic conditions . pet owners generally pay cash out of pocket for health care services for their pets from veterinary practices. demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, 46 including slow economic growth, high unemployment, and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, diagnostic imaging, and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. in the u.s., we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although this data is a limited sample and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, which may affect the number of patient visits in a given period, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. water testing volumes may be susceptible to declines in discretionary testing for existing home and commercial sales and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. testing volumes may also be impacted by severe weather conditions such as drought. in addition, fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and herd health screening services. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the potential effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. effects of patent expiration . although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2018, and several that are expected to expire in 2019 and beyond, the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or future operations due to a range of factors as described in "part i, item 1. business, patents and licenses . non-gaap financial measures . the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth, and references in this analysis and discussion to revenue, revenues or revenue growth are references to organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the current year, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, business acquisitions, and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management's control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable prior year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. we also exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of certain business acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, and because they either require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. effective january 1, 2018, we exclude only acquisitions that are considered to be a business from organic revenue growth. we consider acquisitions to be a business when all three elements of inputs, processes and outputs are present, consistent with asu 2017-01, business combinations: (topic 805) clarifying the definition of a business. in a business combination, if substantially all the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, we do not consider these assets to be a business and effective january 1, 2018, we include these acquisitions in organic revenue growth. a typical acquisition that we do not consider a business is a customer list asset acquisition, which does not have all elements necessary to operate a business, such as employees or infrastructure. we believe the efforts required to convert and retain these acquired customers are similar in nature to our existing customer base and therefore are included in organic revenue growth. this change did not have a material impact on organic revenue growth during the year ended december 31, 2018. prior to january 1, 2018, we excluded all acquisitions from organic revenue growth and we have not restated previously reported organic revenue growth for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, as this change would not have been material. we also use adjusted ebitda, gross debt, net debt, gross debt to adjusted ebitda ratio and net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio, all of which are non-gaap financial measures that should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, financial measures presented according to u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting these non-gaap 47 financial measures provides supplemental analysis to help investors further evaluate our business performance and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility. comparisons to prior periods . our fiscal years end on december 31. unless otherwise stated, the analysis and discussion of our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including references to growth and organic growth and increases and decreases, are being compared to the equivalent prior year period. 48 twelve months ended december 31, 2018 , compared to twelve months ended december 31, 2017 total company the following table presents revenue by operating segment by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international markets: for the years ended december 31, net revenue (dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 dollar change reported revenue growth (1) percentage change from currency percentage change from acquisitions organic revenue growth (1) cag $ 1,935,428 $ 1,703,377 $ 232,051 13.6 % 0.7 % 0.1 % 12.8 % united states 1,277,146 1,125,364 151,782 13.5 % 0.1 % 13.4 % international 658,282 578,013 80,269 13.9 % 2.1 % 11.7 % water 125,198 114,395 10,803 9.4 % 0.2 % 9.3 % united states 58,774 55,482 3,292 5.9 % 5.9 % international 66,424 58,913 7,511 12.7 % 0.3 % 12.4 % lpd 130,581 128,481 2,100 1.6 % 1.0 % 0.6 % united states 13,932 14,108 (176 ) (1.3 %) (1.3 %) international 116,649 114,373 2,276 2.0 % 1.1 % 0.9 % other 22,035 22,805 (770 ) (3.4 %) 0.3 % (3.7 %) total company $ 2,213,242 $ 1,969,058 $ 244,184 12.4 % 0.7 % 0.1 % 11.6 % united states 1,357,909 1,203,547 154,362 12.8 % 0.1 % 12.7 % international 855,333 765,511 89,822 11.7 % 1.8 % 9.9 % (1) reported revenue growth and organic revenue growth may not recalculate due to rounding. total company revenue . the increase in both u.s. and international organic revenues was driven by strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies and expanded commercial organization that are driving increased volumes from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business and the continued expansion of our cag diagnostics instrument installed base. our water business also contributed to our international growth, primarily from higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories. total company revenue included approximately $58.3 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. 49 the following table presents our total company results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change total company - results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 2,213,242 $ 1,969,058 $ 244,184 12.4 % cost of revenue 971,700 871,676 100,024 11.5 % gross profit 1,241,542 56.1 % 1,097,382 55.7 % 144,160 13.1 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 387,406 17.5 % 354,294 18.0 % 33,112 9.3 % general and administrative 244,938 11.1 % 220,878 11.2 % 24,060 10.9 % research and development 117,863 5.3 % 109,182 5.5 % 8,681 8.0 % total operating expenses 750,207 33.9 % 684,354 34.8 % 65,853 9.6 % income from operations $ 491,335 22.2 % $ 413,028 21.0 % $ 78,307 19.0 % gross profit . total company gross profit increase was due to higher sales volumes and a 40 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in the gross profit percentage was supported by the net benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio, the favorable impact of lower product costs and productivity gains. these impacts were partially offset by higher information technology costs, including costs that were previously captured within operating expenses, increased investments in reference laboratory capacity and employee benefits, as well as unfavorable impacts related to instrument program mix under the new revenue standard. the impact from foreign currency movements, including the impact of hedge gains in the prior period compared to hedge losses in the current period, did not have a material impact. gross profit included approximately $22.9 million in 2018 attributed to the new revenue standard. operating expenses . the increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as we continue to invest in and grow our global commercial infrastructure. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs, foreign exchange losses on settlements of foreign currency denominated transactions compared to gains in the prior period, and information technology investments, including ongoing depreciation and maintenance associated with prior year projects. these increases were partially offset by certain information technology costs that are now captured within cost of revenue. research and development expense increased primarily due to higher personnel-related costs. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in an increase in operating expenses of approximately 1%, including foreign exchange losses on settlements of foreign currency denominated transactions recorded within unallocated amounts. 50 companion animal group the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the years ended december 31, net revenue (dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 dollar change reported revenue growth (1) percentage change from currency percentage change from acquisitions organic revenue growth (1) cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,654,530 $ 1,451,701 $ 202,829 14.0 % 0.8 % 13.2 % idexx vetlab consumables 617,237 518,774 98,463 19.0 % 0.8 % 18.1 % rapid assay products 217,541 205,309 12,232 6.0 % 0.4 % 5.6 % reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 746,794 660,142 86,652 13.1 % 0.9 % 12.2 % cag diagnostics services and accessories 72,958 67,476 5,482 8.1 % 0.8 % 7.4 % cag diagnostics capital - instruments 134,264 119,963 14,301 11.9 % 0.6 % 11.3 % veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 146,634 131,713 14,921 11.3 % 0.1 % 1.3 % 10.0 % net cag revenue $ 1,935,428 $ 1,703,377 $ 232,051 13.6 % 0.7 % 0.1 % 12.8 % (1) reported revenue growth and organic revenue growth may not recalculate due to rounding. cag diagnostics recurring revenue . the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was primarily due to increased volumes in idexx vetlab consumables and reference laboratory diagnostic services, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, expanded commercial organization, and to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. cag diagnostics recurring revenue included approximately $18.6 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. idexx vetlab consumables revenue growth was primarily due to higher sales volumes across all regions for our catalyst consumables, and to a lesser extent procyte dx consumables and sedivue dx analyzer pay-per-run sales, supported by growth in testing by new and existing customers and our expanded menu of available tests, as well as benefits from higher average unit sales prices. idexx vetlab consumables revenue included approximately $12.5 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. the increase in rapid assay revenue resulted from higher sales volumes and average unit prices of canine snap 4dx plus tests and higher sales volumes of single analyte snap products. rapid assay revenue included approximately $0.8 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was primarily due to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from new and existing customers, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, such as idexx sdma and fecal antigen testing, and to a lesser extent, higher average unit sales prices. reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting revenue included approximately $5.6 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. the new revenue standard did not have a material impact on cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue in 2018. cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue . the increase in cag diagnostics capital instrument revenue reflects increased placements of catalyst, sedivue dx, and to a lesser extent, procyte dx analyzers, supported by the introduction of idexx 360 in the first quarter of 2018. the success of our idexx 360 program caused a shift away from our 51 instrument rebate program, which resulted in increased upfront instrument revenue recognition attributed to the new revenue standard. cag diagnostics capital instrument revenue included approximately $33.1 million in 2018 that was attributed to the new revenue standard. veterinary software, services, and diagnostic imaging systems revenue . the increase in revenue was primarily due to increased diagnostic imaging system placements and higher veterinary subscription service revenue, partially offset by lower relative diagnostic imaging system prices. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging revenue included approximately $6.4 million in 2018 attributed to the new revenue standard. our acquisition of a software company in the second half of 2018 and two software companies in the second quarter of 2017 also contributed 1.3% to reported revenue growth. the following table presents the cag segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 1,935,428 $ 1,703,377 $ 232,051 13.6 % cost of revenue 868,919 766,579 102,340 13.4 % gross profit 1,066,509 55.1 % 936,798 55.0 % 129,711 13.8 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 345,737 17.9 % 312,497 18.3 % 33,240 10.6 % general and administrative 204,425 10.6 % 180,907 10.6 % 23,518 13.0 % research and development 86,864 4.5 % 79,837 4.7 % 7,027 8.8 % total operating expenses 637,026 32.9 % 573,241 33.7 % 63,785 11.1 % income from operations $ 429,483 22.2 % $ 363,557 21.3 % $ 65,926 18.1 % gross profit . gross profit for cag increased primarily due to higher sales volumes, along with a 10 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the net benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio and the favorable impact of productivity gains were offset by higher information technology costs, including costs that were previously captured within operating expenses, as well as increased investments in reference laboratory capacity and employee benefits, as well as unfavorable impacts related to instrument program mix under the new revenue standard. the impact from foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the gross profit margin. gross profit included approximately $22.7 million in 2018 attributed to the new revenue standard. operating expenses . the increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as we continue to invest in our global commercial infrastructure, offset by approximately $2.1 million related to net deferred costs to obtain contracts under the new revenue standard. the increase in general and administrative expense resulted primarily from higher personnel-related costs, incremental information technology investments, and costs related to the impairment of construction in progress production equipment in connection with the discontinuation of our in-clinic snap fecal product. these increases were partially offset by certain information technology costs that are now captured within cost of revenue. the increase in research and development expense was primarily due to increased personnel-related costs. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in an increase in operating expenses of less than 1%. 52 water the following table presents the water segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 125,198 $ 114,395 $ 10,803 9.4 % cost of revenue 37,106 35,030 2,076 5.9 % gross profit 88,092 70.4 % 79,365 69.4 % 8,727 11.0 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 15,900 12.7 % 14,482 12.7 % 1,418 9.8 % general and administrative 13,005 10.4 % 11,803 10.3 % 1,202 10.2 % research and development 2,580 2.1 % 2,464 2.2 % 116 4.7 % total operating expenses 31,485 25.1 % 28,749 25.1 % 2,736 9.5 % income from operations $ 56,607 45.2 % $ 50,616 44.2 % $ 5,991 11.8 % revenue . the increase in revenue was attributable to higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories, used in coliform and e. coli testing in north america, europe, and latin america, and to a lesser extent, the benefit of price increases. revenue growth in latin america includes the impact of our go-direct initiative in brazil, which contributed approximately 1% to revenue growth, including the impact of reductions in distributor inventories in the first quarter of the prior year. the favorable impact of currency movements increased revenue by approximately 20 basis points. the new revenue standard did not have a material impact on water revenue in 2018. gross profit . gross profit for water increased due to higher sales volumes as well as a 100 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in the gross profit percentage was primarily due to the net benefit of price increases, and to a lesser extent, decreases in manufacturing costs. the impact from foreign currency movements decreased gross profit margin by approximately 20 basis points, including the impact of hedge losses in the current year compared to hedge gains in the prior year. operating expenses . the increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to higher personnel-related costs related to increased head count. the increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to employee related costs. research and development expense was relatively unchanged. the overall change in currency exchange rates was immaterial to operating expenses. 53 livestock, poultry and dairy the following table presents the lpd segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 130,581 $ 128,481 $ 2,100 1.6 % cost of revenue 55,621 56,341 (720 ) (1.3 %) gross profit 74,960 57.4 % 72,140 56.1 % 2,820 3.9 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 24,594 18.8 % 24,801 19.3 % (207 ) (0.8 %) general and administrative 19,159 14.7 % 18,723 14.6 % 436 2.3 % research and development 11,795 9.0 % 12,152 9.5 % (357 ) (2.9 %) total operating expenses 55,548 42.5 % 55,676 43.3 % (128 ) (0.2 %) income from operations $ 19,412 14.9 % $ 16,464 12.8 % $ 2,948 17.9 % revenue . the increase in lpd revenue was primarily due to higher herd health screening in the asia-pacific region and an increase in recurring poultry testing in asia. these increases were partially offset by the impact of an african swine fever outbreak in china, continued pressure on our dairy business, including impacts from lower milk prices, and comparisons to high 2017 year-end government program and distributor orders. the favorable impact of currency movements increased revenue by approximately 1%. the new revenue standard did not have a material impact on lpd revenue in 2018. gross profit . the increase in lpd gross profit was due to higher sales volume and a 130 basis point increase in the gross profit percentage. the increase in the gross profit percentage reflected lower product costs, as well as favorable product mix driven by higher herd health screening. the impact from foreign currency movements increased gross profit margin by approximately 30 basis points, including the impact of hedge gains in the current year compared to hedge losses in the prior year. operating expenses . the overall decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to cost control initiatives, offset by increased consulting costs within general and administrative expenses. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in an increase in operating expenses of less than 1%. 54 other the following table presents the other results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 22,035 $ 22,805 $ (770 ) (3.4 %) cost of revenue 11,785 11,417 368 3.2 % gross profit 10,250 46.5 % 11,388 49.9 % (1,138 ) (10.0 %) operating expenses: sales and marketing 1,806 8.2 % 2,093 9.2 % (287 ) (13.7 %) general and administrative 3,741 17.0 % 3,359 14.7 % 382 11.4 % research and development 974 4.4 % 1,099 4.8 % (125 ) (11.4 %) total operating expenses 6,521 29.6 % 6,551 28.7 % (30 ) (0.5 %) income from operations $ 3,729 16.9 % $ 4,837 21.2 % $ (1,108 ) (22.9 %) revenue . the decrease in other revenue was due to lower volumes of our opti medical analyzers and related consumables in the middle east and asia, partially offset by higher royalties associated with intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, as well as higher realized prices of our opti medical products and services. the favorable impact of currency movements increased revenue by approximately 30 basis points. gross profit . gross profit for other decreased due to a 340 basis point decrease in the gross profit percentage primarily due to higher opti medical product costs, and to a lesser extent, service and distribution costs, partially offset by higher opti medical realized price and increased royalties. the overall change in currency exchange rates had an immaterial impact on the gross profit percentage. operating expenses . the decreases in sales and marketing and research and development expenses were primarily due to lower personnel costs. the increase in general and administrative costs were primarily due to higher facility costs. 55 unallocated amounts we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the following table presents the unallocated amounts results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2018 percent of revenue 2017 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ $ $ n/a cost of revenue (1,731 ) 2,309 (4,040 ) (175.0 %) gross profit 1,731 (2,309 ) 4,040 (175.0 %) operating expenses: sales and marketing (631 ) 421 (1,052 ) (249.9 %) general and administrative 4,608 6,086 (1,478 ) (24.3 %) research and development 15,650 13,630 2,020 14.8 % total operating expenses 19,627 20,137 (510 ) (2.5 %) income from operations $ (17,896 ) $ (22,446 ) $ 4,550 (20.3 %) unallocated amounts . the net change in cost of revenue and operating expenses was primarily due to lower unallocated employee incentive and benefits costs, as well as corporate function costs, both as a result of increased allocations to our segments. these impacts were partially offset by foreign exchange losses on settlements of foreign currency denominated transactions compared to gains in the prior period and an increased investment in research and development. non-operating items interest income . interest income was $1.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , as compared to $5.3 million for the same period in the prior year. the decrease in interest income was primarily due to the liquidation of our portfolio of marketable securities during the first quarter of 2018. the adoption of the new revenue standard decreased interest income by approximately $1.0 million in 2018. interest expense . interest expense was $34.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , as compared to $37.2 million for the prior year. the decrease in interest expense was due to a lower average balance on our credit facility, partially offset by higher variable interest rates . see "part ii. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s. or in u.s. dollars, but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , approximately 22 % of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 21% for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for three of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, singapore and dubai, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency exchange impacts are comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2019 , excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 1% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce revenue by approximately $8 million and operating income by approximately $4 million. additionally, our foreign currency hedge contracts in place as of december 31, 2018 , would provide incremental offsetting gains of approximately $2 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. at our current foreign exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate that the effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will have an unfavorable effect on our operating results by decreasing our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share in the year ending december 31, 2019 , by approximately $37 million, $4 million, and $0.03 per share, respectively. this unfavorable impact includes foreign currency hedging activity, which is expected to increase total company operating profit by approximately $11 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.10 in the year ending december 31, 2019 . the actual impact of changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we transact may materially differ from our expectations described above. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $ 1.13 , the british pound at $ 1.28 , the canadian dollar at $ 0.75 , and the australian dollar at $ 0.70 ; and the japanese yen at 112 , the chinese renminbi at rmb 7.00 , and the brazilian real at r$ 3.79 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2019 . the following table presents the foreign currency exchange impacts on our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share for the years december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , as compared to the respective prior periods: for the years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 revenue impact $ 13,623 $ 6,615 $ (14,105 ) operating profit impact, excluding hedge activity $ 2,260 $ 2,542 $ (6,921 ) hedge gains - prior year (27 ) (3,620 ) (20,879 ) hedge (loss) gain - current year (976 ) 27 3,620 hedging activity impact (1,003 ) (3,593 ) (17,259 ) operating profit impact, including hedge activity $ 1,257 $ (1,051 ) $ (24,180 ) diluted earnings per share impact, including hedge activity $ 0.01 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.20 ) the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a hedging instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of 72 tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into other foreign currency exchange contracts or foreign-denominated debt issuances to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific balance sheet exposures, including net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. see "part ii.risk factors , part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and "part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 16 . segment reporting " to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2019 , included in this annual report on form 10-k for more information about our segments and revenue from customers outside of the u.s. 6 we believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by idexx, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering provide a unique competitive advantage by giving veterinarians the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. we believe that with the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and effectively communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. we believe that these capabilities, enabled by the use of idexx products and services, improve the financial health of the veterinary practice. cag diagnostics we provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians' diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. the result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. integrated diagnostic information management vetconnect plus is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients' data from all of idexx's diagnostic modalities. these integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision-making. in addition, vetconnect plus provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. in this way, vetconnect plus can aid veterinarians and practice staff in engaging the pet owner in the patient's care, which can support greater compliance with medical recommendations or preventive care protocols. customers have activated vetconnect plus in over 100 countries. 7 in-clinic diagnostic solutions our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our idexx vetlab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis, and coagulation analyzers, as well as associated proprietary consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results. our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include a broad range of single-use, handheld idexx snap rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate, and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below. additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. blood and urine chemistry . we have three blood and urine chemistry analyzers that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. we currently sell two of these chemistry analyzers, the catalyst one chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer. we continue to support our catalyst dx chemistry analyzer, previously sold as part of the catalyst platform. these three instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ) based on ortho's dry slide technology. in addition, the catalyst analyzers also use dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at our roswell, georgia facility, as well as certain slides that are manufactured at our westbrook, maine facility. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, calcium, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total protein, and many others. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels, called clips. all three analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of renal disease. the catalyst analyzers provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and test menu relative to the vettest analyzer (our original chemistry analyzer), including the ability to run electrolytes, phenobarbital, fructosamine, total thyroxine ( t 4 ), c-reactive protein, and sdma, as part of one run. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run a whole blood sample using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. these analyzers also enable automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously and both the catalyst dx and catalyst one analyzers run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum, and urine. the catalyst sdma test allows our customers to use the catalyst one and catalyst dx analyzers to screen for sdma, an innovative proprietary test that detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods. the catalyst sdma test is also available in a combo kit with t 4 . the catalyst one analyzer is engineered to deliver the same laboratory-quality results and real-time work flow as the catalyst dx analyzer. the catalyst one analyzer currently offers all the same tests as the catalyst dx, including an expanded menu of 33 tests. we also have two other chemistry analyzers, the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer and the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that are manufactured by idexx at our roswell, georgia facility. sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of idexx vetlab instruments. hematology . we sell four hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (also called a complete blood count). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the first and only in-clinic analyzer to combine laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence, and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in their analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, our original hematology analyzer. in addition, the procyte dx hematology analyzer, the lasercyte dx hematology analyzer, and the lasercyte hematology analyzer each have the ability to analyze the components of certain body fluids. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx analyzer, our premier hematology analyzer, provides significantly improved throughput and accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte, lasercyte dx and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx analyzer provides up to 27 different blood parameters, including the ability to detect band neutrophils, nucleated red blood cells, and reticulocyte hemoglobin for a more complete picture of a patient's health. the procyte dx is validated for 8 many animal species (canine, feline, equine, bovine, ferret, rabbit, gerbil, pig, guinea pig, mini pig, llama, alpaca, camel, sheep, goat, dolphin, and hamster). the lasercyte and lasercyte dx analyzers are the only other point of care hematology analyzers in the veterinary market able to report absolute reticulocyte counts. immunoassay testing instruments . our snap pro analyzer, which automatically activates a snap test, properly times the run, and captures an image of the result. this device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results with the pet owner on the snap pro analyzer screen, or via vetconnect plus. in addition, the snap pro analyzer improves staff efficiency and ensures that all snap test runs are captured and entered into the patient record for customer billing. proread is a software upgrade that enables the snap pro analyzer to interpret the test results. with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total t 4 , cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, respectively. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets, and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx plus test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, feline snap fpl test, and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . the sedivue dx analyzer is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis. the sedivue dx analyzer brings automation, speed and consistency to urinalysis, a traditionally laborious and variable process. its leading-edge technology allows veterinary staff to perform a urine sediment analysis in approximately 3 minutes. the sedivue dx analyzer uses proprietary image processing algorithms similar to facial recognition technology to identify clinically relevant particles found in urine and to capture high-contrast digital images that become part of the permanent patient record. the sedivue dx analyzer leverages its algorithmic software and machine-learning, a type of artificial intelligence, to better identify abnormalities with each result generated, which we refer to as neural network 4.0. the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis from idexx ua strips and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab analyzers, and thus, provides reference laboratory information management system capability. ivls securely connects to the internet, and in this way, enables idexx to perform, through its smartservice solutions wireless services, remote instrument service and software updates to ivls and certain connected instruments. ivls also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to vetconnect plus. we sell ivls as an integral component of the catalyst one, catalyst dx, lasercyte, lasercyte dx and procyte dx analyzers, snap pro analyzer, snapshot dx analyzer and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a touch screen user interface to simplify laboratory work flow, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite, stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results, and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the cornerstone system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. the snap rapid assays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read and recorded automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer or activated and captured automatically by the snap pro analyzer and interpreted using proread, as discussed above. the principal snap rapid assay tests are as follows: single-use canine tests : snap 4dx plus, which tests for the six vector-borne diseases; lyme disease, ehrlichia canis, ehrlichia ewingii, anaplasma phagocytophilum and anaplasma platys, and canine heartworm; snap heartworm rt, which tests for heartworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to the immune system and intestinal tract; snap cpl, which tests for canine pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and snap lepto, which tests for leptospirosis, a life-threatening bacterial infection spread through contact with water or soil that has been contaminated by the urine of infected animals. sales of canine vector-borne disease tests, including snap 4dx plus and snap heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the northern hemisphere. 9 single-use feline tests : snap feline triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to aids in humans), feline leukemia virus ( felv ) and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap fpl, which tests for feline pancreatitis; snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens; and snap feline probnp, which uses a cardiac biomarker (nt probnp) to test for stretch and stress on the heart. outside reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in many developed markets worldwide, including customers in the u.s., europe, canada, australia, japan, new zealand, south africa, south korea, and brazil, through a network of over 80 laboratories. we have reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; louisville, kentucky and leipzig, germany that are strategically located near large logistics hubs of major air cargo carriers. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes, and infectious diseases. canine vector-borne disease testing volumes are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the northern hemisphere. our broad range of innovative tests include our idexx sdma test, which is an innovative proprietary kidney test that detects the onset of canine and feline kidney disease months or years earlier than traditional methods, as well as our hookworm, roundworm, and whipworm antigen tests on all fecal panels that detect the presence of intestinal worms often undiagnosed by current methods, including finding them earlier in the infection cycle and therefore enabling earlier disease diagnosis and treatment intervention. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine, and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine, and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. our diagnostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to biomedical research customers in north america, europe, and asia. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems veterinary software and services. we develop, market, and sell a portfolio of software and services for independent veterinary clinics and corporate groups. this portfolio includes: practice management systems . software, hardware, and integrated services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records (ehr), scheduling, client communication, billing, and inventory management. our principal practice management systems are cornerstone (on-premise), idexx neo (cloud-based), dvmax (on-premise), and idexx animana (cloud-based, available in europe). we also support several other practice management systems including better choice, vpm, vetlink, and beefree. to support the software system needs of practices, idexx provides integrated services including: hardware, payment solutions, data backup &amp; recovery, and practice supplies including petdetect boarding collars. software applications that extend workflow capabilities for practices and groups . with our smart flow cloud offering, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2018, we are able to improve overall patient management and workflow optimization through coordination and tracking of every step of a patient during a hospital stay. smart flow works in conjunction with major veterinary practice management systems, including idexx cornerstone, dvmax, idexx animana, idexx neo, and certain third-party practice management systems. 10 client marketing and wellness plan management . in addition, we offer cloud-based client communication (pet health network pro and pet health network 3d) and preventive care plan management software (petly plans) designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. to support the communication needs between general practices and specialty referral practices, idexx offers rvetlink software, which we acquired in the second quarter of 2017. lastly, idexx enterprise provides centralized management and reporting capabilities for groups of veterinary practices. diagnostic imaging systems . our diagnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell three diagnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the idexx imagevue dr50, the idexx imagevue dr40, and the idexx imagevue cr20. our newest radiography system, the idexx imagevue dr50, enables low-dose radiation image capture without sacrificing clear, high-quality images, a component in reducing the risk posed by excess radiation exposure for veterinary professionals. the idexx imagevue dr50 system also offers wireless capabilities for flexibility in patient positioning. our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software called idexx-pacs, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. idexx web pacs is our cloud-based software-as-a-service ( saas ) offering for viewing, accessing, storing, and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. idexx web pacs is integrated with cornerstone, idexx neo and idexx vetconnect plus to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. idexx web pacs updates automatically and offers secure storage for an unlimited number of diagnostic images. the software features advanced radiology measurement tools as well as an interactive collaboration feature that allows veterinarians to collaborate and consult remotely with other practitioners. idexx i-vision mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with idexx digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an ipad or an android mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs software. 11 our principal products are the colilert, colilert-18, and colisure tests, which detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater, and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste, and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect the presence of pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa, and bottled water. pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer's ear , and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems. our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by thermo fisher scientific, inc. that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. in 2016, we launched legiolert, a simple culture method test for the detection of legionella pneumophila, the most common legionella species in water, and the primary cause of legionnaires' disease. the legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, enterolert, pseudalert, heterotrophic plate count (hpc) or legiolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. in 2015, we launched the quanti-tray sealer plus, a next generation instrument of the previously available quanti-tray sealer 2x. these instruments are used with the quanti-tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. our simplate for hpc product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts, and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. 12 we sell diagnostic tests, services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve producer efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers, and processors. our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus ( bvdv ) and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine, leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth, and vulnerability to secondary infections. our principal dairy products use our snap test platform and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. our primary product lines are snap beta-lactam st and snapduo beta-tetra st, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. we also sell snap tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as aflatoxin m1. in 2016, we launched the realpcr asfv test, which is a real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr) assay for african swine fever (asfv) in domestic and wild swine species. this test provides early and accurate detection of asfv supporting p revention, control, and eradication programs by veterinarians and producers. 13 other opti medical through opti medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these opti analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. our latest generation opti cca-ts2 blood gas and electrolyte analyzer, which launched in 2013, contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized work flows, faster time to result, improved communication, and a multi-level electronic control. similar to our earlier generation opti cca and opti touch electrolyte analyzers, the opti cca-ts2 runs whole blood, plasma, and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. other activities we own certain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that are included in the other segment. marketing and distribution we market, sell, and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales, and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in all major regions including africa, asia pacific, canada, europe, middle east, and latin america. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements, and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the u.s. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide, generally through our direct sales force. we market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. we market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s., canada, europe, and australia. we market our water and lpd products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through selected independent distributors. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business segments. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $133.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 , or 5.5 % of our consolidated revenue, $117.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , or 5.3 % of our consolidated revenue and $109.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 , or 5.5% of our consolidated revenue. 14 patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to the company based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for the company's inventions and other proprietary intellectual property, affording protection from competitors in certain markets, enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings, strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees and key suppliers, and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators and other copiers of technologies. important patents and licenses include: an exclusive license from tulane university to patents that started to expire in 2019 and are continuing into 2020 relating to reagents for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of anaplasma phagocytophilum utilized in certain of our snap products that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of ehrlichia canis utilized in certain of our snap products that expire beginning in 2019 and continuing into 2022; a patent concerning lasercyte consumables that expires in 2020; patents concerning catalyst consumables that expire beginning in 2020 and will continue into 2035; patents concerning catalyst instruments that expire beginning in 2026 and will continue into 2032; patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of sdma that expire in 2029. in addition, we have pending u.s. patent applications concerning reagents and methods for detecting sdma. if such applications are granted, we expect the associated patents would have expirations ranging from 2036 to 2038. while we consider these proprietary technology rights to be important to us, a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. these factors include publications, including peer-reviewed third-party studies, that demonstrate the accuracy of our products; our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; our online ordering platform that enables direct ordering of (including establishing automatic reorder schedules for) our consumables, tests and other products by our customers; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our investment in diagnostic innovations that results in new product offerings that often are patentable and that expand the test menu for our in-clinic instruments and/or reference laboratory business; and our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2019, and are expected to expire in 2020 and beyond, the expiration of these patents, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on the company's financial position or future operations. in addition, we already face notable competition in certain areas as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these proprietary technology rights. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights, or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 15 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties. we rely on third parties in our supply chain to supply us, and our direct suppliers, with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases, these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. from time to time, we seek to qualify alternative suppliers. instruments and consumables . significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include certain catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine, t4, crp, and sdma slides), progesterone, vetlyte consumables, lasercyte and lasercyte dx consumables, vettest, vetautoread and procyte dx analyzers and consumables, sedivue dx urinalysis instrument and consumables, and components of our snap pro mobile device. vettest and certain catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire in december of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest and catalyst chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market, excluding the eu, other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2034, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components . we purchase certain other products, raw materials, and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock, and poultry testing kits and water testing products. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. backlog we do not generally maintain a significant backlog of orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we compete with many companies ranging from large human and animal health pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than us, as well as greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. for more information on risks related to our competition, see part i, item 1a. risk factors." competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, unique product innovations, fully integrated technology, information management capability, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. our major competitors in most geographic locations in north america are antech diagnostics, a unit of vca inc., a division of mars, incorporated; zoetis inc. (including its wholly-owned subsidiary abaxis, inc.); heska corporation; samsung electronics co., ltd., and fujifilm north america corporation. we also compete in certain international markets with zoetis, fujifilm holdings corporation, samsung electronics, arkray, inc., and bionote, inc. 16 water, livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multibillion-dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises. veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we sell these products primarily in north america and europe. our largest competitor in north america and the u.k. is covetrus, inc., which offers several systems and leverages its animal health distribution business in sales and service. we also compete with numerous focused smaller companies throughout the markets in which we offer veterinary software, including those offering cloud-based solutions. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory company, abbott diagnostics, a division of abbott laboratories and roche diagnostics corporation. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, product registrations, manufacturing, import, export, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, product disposal, environmental compliance, and workplace safety. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . these products include our diagnostic test kits for companion and food animal infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products. these products are licensed and regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in and from the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product validation data, including manufacturing process and facility documentation. following regulatory licensure to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for test review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval, to support product registration for sale, distribution, and use within their countries. however, compliance with extensive country-specific regulatory processes is required in connection with importing and marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, canada, brazil, the netherlands, china, and many other countries. we are also required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine which also covers our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our lpd manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. our veterinary diagnostic slide and instrument systems, including t4, fructosamine, progesterone, crp, and sdma, are veterinary medical devices regulated by the fda under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). other fda regulated products include our non-licensed rapid assay products such as snap pancreatic lipase, cortisol, bile acid, foal igg, and probnp. while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda's current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), the fdc act specifies that these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled, or misbranded. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is regulated by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert, colilert-18, colisure, quanti-tray, filta-max xpress , enterolert and simplate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the epa for use under various 17 regulatory programs. water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs in the u.s. are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam antibiotic residue test product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class i and/or class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda's quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. other environmental regulations . all idexx products must comply with applicable global product regulations, including those governing consumer product safety and materials requirements such as the europeans union's electromagnetic compatibility ("emc") directive, the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances ("reach"), the restriction of hazardous substances ("rohs") directive, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ("weee") directive. these complex regulatory requirements create risk to idexx's ability to market and sell our products, our business and our financial performance. for more information about the risks associated with various u.s. and foreign government regulation, see "various u.s. and foreign government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business " under "part i, item 1a. risk factors." in the european union, our analyzers and certain associated equipment are subject to the requirements of the rohs directive, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. other countries, including china, russia, the united arab emirates, and turkey have implemented or anticipate implementing regulatory regimes similar to the rohs directive. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are not subject to regulation under the european medical device directive or the in vitro diagnostic directive, which are both strictly applicable to human use products. however, these systems are required to meet ce certification, which required compliance with the rohs directive, the emc directive, and other safety requirements. similar requirements are specified by most counties in which we sell our products and are subject to increasing harmonization globally. the european union was among the first to regulate and restrict the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products. these requirements include the biocidal products regulation, which requires the use of approved biocides in our products prior to being exported to the european union, and reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that have been or may be adopted elsewhere, such as turkey, korea, and other countries) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products. some of our products, including some of our companion animal products, may be subject to pending restriction of microplastics pursuant to reach. in the us, the epa regulates chemical use similarly to the eu. in addition, certain states have their own chemical regulations, such as california's proposition 65, which requires businesses to provide warnings to california residents about significant risk of exposures to chemicals in products that are known to cause cancer, birth defects or other reproductive harm. in addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the u.s. federal trade commission (the ftc ) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export laws and regulations, including u.s. import and export control and sanctions laws, and laws and regulations governing the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data. development or acquisition of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the fda, the epa, the usda, the ftc, and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments. 18 employees as of february 7, 2020, we had approximately 9,200 employees. available information our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references to our website in this annual report on form 10-k are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose. we make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed at www.sec.gov. our corporate governance guidelines and our code of ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com. 19 item 1a. risk factors you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating our company and our business. our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties and actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this annual report on form 10-k. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere herein. any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. risks related to our business because our business lines are highly attractive, they are also highly competitive. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies within this competitive environment could have a material negative impact on our future growth and profitability the companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive, and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants given our performance and the market's strong growth and returns. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: developing, manufacturing, and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related recurring sales of consumable products, services, and accessories; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services for both our reference laboratories and in-clinic applications that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of the information and transactions of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; maintaining premium pricing, including by effectively implementing price increases, for our differentiated products and services through, among other things, effective communication and promotion of the value of our products and services in an environment where many of our competitors promote, market, and sell lesser offerings at prices lower than ours; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information, and resources that enable them to grow their practices and the utilization of our diagnostic products and services, through increased pet visits, use of preventive care protocols and enhanced practice of real-time care; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of reference laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; continuing to expand, develop, and advance the productivity of our companion animal diagnostic sales, marketing, customer support and logistics organizations in the u.s. and international markets in support of, among other things, our all-direct sales strategies; attracting, developing, and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy, which is challenging due to the increasingly competitive and tight labor markets in which we operate; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and continuing to effectively manage our growth and expansion on a global scale through, among other things, designing and implementing cost-effective improvements to our processes, procedures, and infrastructure. 20 if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. we depend on key leadership and talent to succeed and compete effectively our continued success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly capable and skilled senior leadership and other key personnel. as we continue to grow our business, expand our geographic scope, and develop and offer innovative, new products and services, we require the organizational talent necessary to ensure effective succession for our senior leadership and other key personnel. competition for experienced leaders and employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location, work environment and development opportunities. the loss of the services of, or our failure to recruit or develop and implement effective succession plans for, our senior leadership or other key personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives, disrupt our operations, and adversely affect our business and our future success. in addition, even if we effectively develop and implement succession plans and make key leadership transitions, we cannot provide assurances as to whether we may experience management or other challenges in connection with any of those leadership transitions that could adversely affect our future success. our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results we rely on third-party suppliers to provide components for our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves, and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package-delivery services. because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. the risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with such suppliers on reasonable terms, breach, or termination by suppliers of their contractual obligations, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, disruption to suppliers' business, including work stoppages, suppliers' failure to comply with complex and changing regulations, and third-party financial failure. any problems with our suppliers and associated disruptions to our supply chain could materially negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs, or damage our reputation with our customers, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of our customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. disruption to our supply chain could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices; the imposition of regulations, trade protection measures, tariffs, duties, import/export restrictions, quotas or embargoes on key components; labor stoppages; transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods; the unavailability of raw materials; severe weather conditions; natural disasters; public health issues (such as outbreaks, epidemics, or the prospect of a pandemic); climate change-related events; civil unrest, war, terrorism or other geopolitical developments, including the united kingdom's exit from the european union; computer viruses, physical or electronic breaches, or other information system disruptions or security breaches; and disruptions in utility and other services. for more information regarding the risks presented by natural and other disasters and system disruptions and security breaches from cyberattacks, see we are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems, and a disruption of these systems or significant security breaches could adversely affect our business and "natural and other disasters could adversely affect our business" below. in addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include the majority of our catalyst dx and catalyst one consumables; vetlyte electrolyte consumables; procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, and vettest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; sedivue dx urine sediment analyzer and consumables; image capture plates used in our diagnostic imaging systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay kits and snap pro mobile device, catalyst one, lasercyte and lasercyte dx hematology analyzers, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products, and water testing products. even where products and materials are available from alternative suppliers, if any become unavailable to us for any reason, we likely would incur additional costs and delays in identifying or qualifying replacement materials and there can be no assurance that replacements would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. in certain cases, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval to use alternative suppliers, and this process of approval could delay production of our products or development of product candidates indefinitely. we seek to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers on a risk-prioritized basis and in a variety of ways, including, when possible, by identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers, developing applicable in-house manufacturing capabilities and expertise, and entering into escrow arrangements for manufacturing information for certain 21 single or sole-sourced products. we also seek to enter into long-term contracts with our sole and single source suppliers that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable or fixed prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement any of these mitigating activities or that, if implemented, any of them will be effective in preventing any delay or other disruption in our ability to supply the market. in addition, suppliers may decline to enter into long-term contracts for any number of reasons, which would require us to purchase products via short-term contracts or on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have long-term contracts will always fulfill their obligations under those contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, or if such sole and single source suppliers are unable to obtain the components or other materials required to manufacture the products, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and any longer-term disruptions could potentially result in the permanent loss of customers, which could reduce our recurring revenues and long-term profitability. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells, and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples, and the environment. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria and regulatory requirements. further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, either of which could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems, and a disruption of these systems or significant security breaches could adversely affect our business . we rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our third-party business partners' and suppliers' information systems, to provide access to our web-based products and services, keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. although we maintain information security policies and employ system backup measures and engage in information system redundancy planning and processes, such policies, measures, planning and processes, as well as our current disaster recovery plans, may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. further, our information systems and our business partners' and suppliers' information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including, among other things, computer viruses and malware, denial of service actions, misappropriation of data and similar events through the internet (including via devices and applications connected to the internet), and through email attachments and persons with access to these information systems, such as our employees or third parties with whom we do business. as information systems and the use of software and related applications by us, our business partners, suppliers, and customers become more cloud-based and connected to the internet of things, which is inherently susceptible to cyberattacks, there has been an increase in global cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, including more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks that pose a risk to the security of our information systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data and information. we process credit card payments electronically over secure networks and also offer products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things, such as our connected devices (e.g., idexx vetlab instruments). any such attack or breach could compromise our networks and the information stored thereon could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. while we have implemented network security and internal control measures, especially for the purpose of protecting our connected products and services from cyberattacks, and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack, or security breach and, as such, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains. 22 we, and some of our third party vendors, have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience further attacks in the future, potentially with more frequency. to our knowledge, most of these attacks have been unsuccessful, and none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. we have adopted measures to mitigate potential risks associated with information technology disruptions and cybersecurity threats; however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions and the evolving nature of cybersecurity threats, which vary in technique and sources, if we or our business partners or suppliers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, or our customers were to experience a system disruption, attack or security breach via any of our connected products and services, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses and additional costs from remedial actions, repairs to infrastructure, physical systems or data processing systems, increased cybersecurity and information technology protection costs, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. our customers could also face negative consequences such as the compromises of sensitive or critical information or systems. furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of data or information (including any of our confidential or proprietary information or personal data or information) as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, damage our ability to develop (and protect our rights to) our proprietary technologies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. for more information regarding data and information privacy and protection risks, see our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products, or our services do not comply with our global privacy policy or evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection below. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2019 , approximately 38 % of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. although we intend to continue to expand our international operations and business, we may not be able to successfully promote, market, import, export, sell or distribute our products and services outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including, but not limited to, disruptions in transportation of our products or our supply chain; fluctuations in oil prices; increased border protection and restriction on travel; the differing product and service needs of foreign customers; difficulties in building, staffing and managing foreign operations (including a geographically dispersed workforce); differing protection of intellectual property; trade protection measures, quotas, embargoes, import/export restrictions, tariffs, duties, and regulatory and licensing requirements; natural and other disasters; public health issues (such as outbreaks, epidemics, or the prospect of a pandemic); ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's regulatory, economic or political conditions, including as a result of the united kingdom's exit from the european union; other unfavorable geopolitical conditions; security concerns; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices prohibited by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. in addition, to market and sell many of our products outside the u.s., we are subject to product approval and registration requirements that often require us to provide confidential, proprietary information about those products to foreign regulatory agencies. there can be no assurance that the confidential, proprietary information provided to foreign regulatory agencies to comply with product approval and registration requirements may not be accessed by unauthorized persons or otherwise stolen, which could negatively affect our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our innovative products and our future success. we also may forgo marketing and selling some of our products in certain foreign jurisdictions due to the risk of intellectual property theft, which could negatively affect our ability to expand our international operations and business. for more information about the risks related to the protection of our proprietary rights in our products and services, see "our success is heavily dependent on our continued proprietary product and service innovation" below. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 23 various u.s. and foreign government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business as a global business, we sell products and services in more than 175 countries and operate in an increasingly complex legal and regulatory environment. in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of certain of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda, and the epa. our diagnostic tests for animal health applications that involve the detection of infectious diseases, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our dairy testing products as well as the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa, as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa, before they can be used by customers in the u.s. delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the manufacture, import, and sale of our products, as well as our research and development processes, are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. for example, the european union regulates the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products or processes. these regulations include the biocidal products regulation, which requires approval for the use of certain biocides in our products prior to being manufactured, used, or sold in the european union; the european regulation for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the european union; and the restriction of hazardous substances("rohs") directive, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that may be adopted elsewhere, including china and brazil) may require registration of the applicable substances or the redesign or reformulation of our products and may reduce or eliminate the availability of certain parts and components used in our products and services in the event our suppliers are unable to comply with the applicable regulations in a timely and cost-effective manner. any redesign or reformulation or restricted supply of parts and components may negatively affect the availability or performance of our products and services, add testing lead-times for products and reformulated products, reduce our margins, result in additional costs, or have other similar effects. in addition, the costs to comply with these regulations may be significant. any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. these legal and regulatory requirements are complex and subject to change, and we continue to evaluate their impact. in addition, some foreign governments require us to register our products before they can be distributed or sold, and these product registration requirements, which vary among the applicable jurisdictions and change from time to time, are often complex and require us to engage in lengthy and costly processes and provide confidential, proprietary information about those products to foreign regulatory agencies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any product registration required by one or more foreign governments. any inability to obtain or maintain a required product registration in a jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to market and sell the applicable product in that jurisdiction, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can also be no assurance that confidential, proprietary information provided to foreign regulatory agencies may not be accessed by unauthorized persons or otherwise stolen, which could negatively impact our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our innovative products and our future success. for more information about the risks related to the protection of our proprietary rights in our products and services, see "our success is heavily dependent on our continued proprietary product and service innovation" below. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations governing, as well as legal and political environments that vary broadly regarding, among other things, the importation and exportation of products; our global business practices, such as anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and anti-competition laws; and immigration and travel restrictions. these legal, regulatory, and political requirements and environments differ among jurisdictions around the world and are rapidly changing and increasingly complex. the costs associated with compliance with these legal and regulatory requirements and adjusting to changing legal and political environments are significant and likely to increase in the future. any failure by us to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or to adjust to changing legal and political environments, could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions; product recalls; suspensions or discontinuations of, or limitations or restrictions on, our ability to design, manufacture, market, import, export or sell our products; and damage to our reputation. any of these could negatively impact our business. 24 our success is heavily dependent on our continued proprietary product and service innovation we believe our future success significantly depends on our ability to continue, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to enhance our existing proprietary product and service offerings and to develop and introduce new and innovative proprietary products and services. as a result, we invest substantial funds and efforts into r&amp;d, investigating new products and technologies being developed by third parties and obtaining certain such new products and technologies through licenses or acquisitions. there can be no assurance that our r&amp;d, licensing, or acquisition efforts will achieve expected results, when or whether any of our products or services now under development will be launched, or whether we may be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire new products or technologies. we also cannot predict whether any product or service offering, once launched, will achieve market acceptance or achieve sales and revenue consistent with our expectations. we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. we also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. increased competition from and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services, and we expect that future competition will become even more intense as new products, services and technologies become available and new competitors enter the market. our competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market in the united states and abroad include companies that develop, manufacture, and sell veterinary diagnostic tests and commercial veterinary reference laboratories, certain large and well-funded animal health pharmaceutical companies, as well as corporate hospital chains that operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals, such as vca inc. (formerly named vca antech, inc.), which is wholly owned by mars, incorporated, another operator of corporate hospital chains. consolidation among our competitors and our customers may intensify the competition we face. while we believe that our offerings are competitively differentiated due to our proprietary products and services (such as the idexx sdma test and vetconnect plus) that offer an integrated, comprehensive diagnostic solution and the quality of our technical and customer service, there can be no assurance that increased consolidation among our competitors or customers (as well as any resulting reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers) would not have a negative impact on our ability to compete successfully. for more information regarding the risks presented by consolidation and reference laboratory vertical integration among our customers, see consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business below. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets through the development of innovative new technology, the acquisition of rights to use existing technologies or the use of existing technologies when patents protecting such existing technologies expire. new or existing competitors may introduce new, innovative, and competitive products and services, which could be superior, or be perceived by our customers to be superior, to our products and services or lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products or services. business combinations and mergers among our competitors may result in competitors that are better positioned to create, market, and sell more compelling product and service offerings. while an important aspect of our strategy is to continue, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new and innovative products and services, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop such products and services or that those products or services will be superior to our competitors' products or services or otherwise achieve market acceptance. some of 25 our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services perceived in the eyes of customers as similar, at substantially lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. in addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. certain of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, also have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than us, as well as greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. consolidation in our customer base, including through increased corporate hospital ownership, and prevalence of buying consortiums could negatively affect our business veterinarians are our primary customers for our cag products and services, and the veterinary services industry in the u.s. and abroad has been consolidating over time at an accelerating rate in recent years. in the united states, the number of owners of veterinary hospitals has been declining, and an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include mars, incorporated (owner of banfield pet hospitals, blue pearl veterinary partners, pet partners and vca inc.), and national veterinary associates, and are joined by dozens of smaller consolidators. a similar trend exists in other regions such as canada, europe, australia, new zealand, brazil, and china. furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are participating in buying consortiums. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, certain corporate owners also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally attempt to shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies, and there can be no assurance that hospitals that otherwise become affiliated with these companies would not shift all or a portion of their testing to such reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies or those that establish other affiliations with these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. the outbreak of certain diseases (such as african swine fever) among livestock or poultry, or the adverse impact of climate change-related events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, and floods), could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of such animals in the affected regions, reducing herd or flock sizes, which could reduce the demand for our testing products for such animals. changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. in addition, changes and trends in local dairy, poultry, or other food markets around the world could negatively affect the related production markets resulting in a decline in demand for our testing products. declines in testing for any reason, including the reasons described above, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. natural and other disasters could adversely affect our business. our business and results of operations could be negatively affected by certain factors beyond our control, such as natural disasters and/or climate change-related events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, and floods); public health issues (such as outbreaks, epidemics, or the prospect of a pandemic); civil unrest; negative geopolitical conditions and developments; and war, terrorism, or other man-made disasters. any of these events could result in, among other things, damage to or the 26 temporary closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities or reference laboratories (damage to one of our facilities or the manufacturing equipment we use could be costly and may require substantial lead-time to repair or replace); damage to or closure of one or more facilities of our third-party business partners or suppliers on which we rely; a temporary lack of an adequate work force in one or more markets; an interruption in power supply; a temporary or long-term disruption in our supply chain (including a disruption to our ability to obtain critical components for the manufacture of our products); a temporary disruption in our ability to deliver (or delays in the delivery of) our products or services; and short- or long-term damage to our customers' businesses (which would adversely impact customer demand for our products and services). for more information regarding the risks presented by disruption to our suppliers' operations and supply chain, see our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results above. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; wetherby, u.k.; tokyo, japan; and leipzig, germany. interruption of operations at any of these facilities due to the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we also maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for potential long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we, our products, or our services do not comply with our global privacy policy or evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our customers, pet owners, suppliers, and employees. we collect and use personal data in a variety of ways. we offer products and services that collect and use personal data provided by customer practices, individuals, and third-parties at customers' direction, including practice management systems for veterinary practices, online customer communication tools and services, vetconnect plus, two-way integration technology, and use by third-parties authorized by our customers to provide programs and services to such customers. some of these products and services rely on third-party providers for cloud storage. we also engage in e-commerce through various websites and collect contact and other personal data from our customers and visitors to our websites. the privacy, security, retention, sharing and use of the personal data described above are subject to expanding and increasingly complex laws and regulations in the u.s. (such as the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective on january 1, 2020) and abroad (such as the brazilian general data protection law ( lgpd ), which will become effective on august 15, 2020), some of which impose significant compliance obligations. some of these laws and regulations apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure, sharing and security of personal data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, contact information, and sensitive personal data. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent revisions and differing interpretations and have generally become more stringent over time. in many cases, the federal, state, and international laws described above apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. for example, we are subject to the european union's general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which became effective in may 2018. the gdpr imposes stringent operational requirements for controllers and processors of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements, and could subject us to increased liability for violations. in addition, the laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection continue to develop, are subject to differing interpretations and may be applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may be inconsistent with our current global privacy policy and data protection practices. the costs associated with compliance with these evolving legal and regulatory requirements are significant and likely to increase in the future and as a result may cause us to incur substantial costs, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business or limit our ability to use and share personal data. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal data can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators in the u.s. and abroad to expand or adopt more stringent regulations and laws. 27 while we have policies and procedures in place to comply with all applicable privacy-related laws and regulations (including the gdpr and ccpa), as well as our contractual obligations, any failure or perceived failure by us, the third parties with whom we work or our products and services to so comply could result in damage to our reputation or legal proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, or security of personal data or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, could damage our reputation and harm our business. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business we are a global business, with 38 % of our revenue during the year ended december 31, 2019 , attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside of the u.s. any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, japanese yen, australian dollar and brazilian real, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales and profits that are made in those currencies. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar has a greater adverse effect on the profits from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars that are exported to international markets and a lesser effect on profits from foreign sourced products and services due to a natural hedge from international expenses denominated in the corresponding foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , approximately 22 % of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 22% and 21% for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars as well as affect our overall competitiveness in international markets. the accumulated impacts from any continued, longer-term growth in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. in addition, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. our foreign currency hedging activities (see "part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 . hedging instruments" in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, may not sufficiently offset the adverse financial effect of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates on our financial results over the limited time the hedges are in place. in addition, our hedging activities involve costs and risks, such as transactions costs and the risk that our hedging counterparties will default on their obligations. we primarily hedge intercompany product purchases and sales denominated in the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, and australian dollar. other foreign currency exposures related to foreign sourced services and emerging markets may not be practical to hedge. in certain cases, these exposures are not offset by foreign currency denominated costs. as we primarily use foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months and enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions on a quarterly basis for the current and following year, the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedging activities to offset longer-term appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies may be limited. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales and other forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. since our hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only temporarily reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also temporarily reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by a strengthening value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. a weak worldwide economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. pet owners generally pay cash out of pocket for health care services for their pets from veterinary practices. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals 28 or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. these conditions, if they continue, could result in a decrease in sales or decrease in sales growth, of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. we sell many products through distributors, which presents risks that could negatively affect our operating results some of our product sales in international markets occur through third-party distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to promote and create demand for our products. our distributors often offer products from several different companies, and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors' products and promote our competitors' products over our own products. we have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling, and supporting our products or to maintain certain inventory levels, and changes in our distributors' inventory levels, as compared to comparable prior periods, could negatively impact our revenue growth rates. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. while we maintain a rigorous distribution compliance program, violations of anti-corruption or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business and reputation, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. failure to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors outside of the u.s. may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, any of which could have a negative effect on our operating results. future operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities the nature of our international operations subjects us to local, state, regional and federal tax laws in jurisdictions around the world. our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. additionally, tax rules governing cross-border activities are continually subject to modification as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ) was enacted in the u.s. on december 22, 2017 and includes significant changes to the u.s. federal corporate tax system. effective january 1, 2018, the 2017 tax act reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and transitioned from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system. the 2017 tax act introduced new provisions including the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ), foreign derived intangible income ( fdii ), base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat'), expanded bonus depreciation and changed deductions for executive compensation and interest expense. the u.s. department of treasury continues to issue regulations related to the 2017 tax act which may increase or decrease our tax liability in future periods. see "part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 13. income taxes" in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the impact of the 2017 tax act. we have received a tax ruling from the netherlands that documents our mutual understanding of how existing tax laws apply to our circumstances. this ruling expires as of december 31, 2022, and we have been informed that it will not be renewed due to changes to the advance ruling policy in the netherlands. while the absence of an advance agreement does not 29 preclude our ability to continue to apply existing tax laws in the same manner as allowed by the existing ruling, the lack of such agreement could create uncertainty as to our future tax rate. additionally, the european commission has opened formal investigations into specific tax rulings granted by several countries to specific taxpayers. while we believe that our rulings are different than those being discussed, the ultimate resolution of such activities cannot be predicted and could also have an adverse impact on future operating results. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by various tax authorities, and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we regularly assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. any reduction in these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination is made. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. restrictions in our debt agreements or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may increase our cost of borrowing and limit our activities our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative, and financial covenants. our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. in addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior to their stated maturity dates. should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and senior note financings. if we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates, including rates based on the london interbank offered rate (libor), exposing us to interest rate risk. if interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations under our variable-rate credit facility would increase even if the principal amount borrowed remained the same. while we may enter into interest rate swaps in the future to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations associated with our variable-rate indebtedness, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. in addition, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced in july 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for libor after 2021 and it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established. if libor ceases to exist, one or more interest rates under our credit facility would, in the absence of an amendment, instead apply (depending on currency of the borrowing and other factors, including the cost of funds of applicable lenders, as determined by them), and similarly we may need to amend certain of our other agreements that 30 use libor as a benchmark and we cannot predict what alternative index or other amendments may be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance or modification of libor, alternative reference rates, or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. risks related to an investment in our securities fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results may cause our stock price to decline our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; timing of regulatory approvals and licenses; litigation and claim-related expenditures; increase in the number and type of competitors; changes in competitors' product offerings; changes in our sales and distribution model; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as other general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. the following factors, in addition to other factors described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this form 10-k, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: changes in customer needs, expectations or trends and our ability to maintain relationships with key customers; our ability to implement our business strategy; our stock repurchase program; changes in our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt; public announcements (including the timing of these announcements) regarding our business, financial performance and prospects or new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us; trading activity in our stock, including portfolio transactions in our stock by us, our executive officers and directors, and significant stockholders or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which we may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index; short-interest in our common stock, which could be significant from time to time; our inclusion in, or removal from, any stock indices; investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; whether or not we meet earnings estimates of securities analysts who follow us; and general financial, domestic, international, economic, and market conditions, including overall fluctuations in the u.s. equity markets. in addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and factors beyond our control may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. in addition, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. our foreign currency hedging activities (see "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding currency impact. our future income tax expense could also be affected by changes in the mix of earnings, including as a result of changes in the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar relative to currencies in countries with differing statutory tax rates. see part i, item 1a. risk factors included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding tax impacts. effects of economic conditions . pet owners generally pay cash out of pocket for health care services for their pets from veterinary practices. demand for our products and services is vulnerable to changes in the economic environment, including slow economic growth, high unemployment, and credit availability. negative or cautious consumer sentiment can lead to reduced or delayed consumer spending, resulting in a decreased number of patient visits to veterinary clinics. unfavorable economic conditions can impact sales of instruments, diagnostic imaging and practice management systems, which are larger capital purchases for veterinarians. additionally, economic turmoil can cause our customers to remain sensitive to the pricing of our products and services. in the u.s., we monitor patient visits and clinic revenue data provided by a subset of our cag customers. although this data is a limited sample and susceptible to short-term impacts such as weather, which may affect the number of patient visits in a given period, we believe that this data provides a fair and meaningful long-term representation of the trend in patient visit activity in the u.s., providing us insight regarding demand for our products and services. economic conditions can also affect the purchasing decisions of our water and lpd business customers. water testing volumes may be susceptible to declines in discretionary testing for existing home and commercial sales and in mandated testing as a result of decreases in home and commercial construction. testing volumes may also be impacted by severe weather conditions such as drought. in addition, fiscal difficulties can also reduce government funding for water and herd health screening services. we believe that the diversity of our products and services and the geographic diversity of our markets partially mitigate the potential effects of the economic environment and negative consumer sentiment on our revenue growth rates. 48 effects of patent expiration . although we have several patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that expired during 2019, and several that are expected to expire in 2020 and beyond, the expiration of these patents or licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or future operations due to a range of factors as described in "part i, item 1. business, patents and licenses . non-gaap financial measures . the following revenue analysis and discussion focuses on organic revenue growth, and references in this analysis and discussion to revenue, revenues or revenue growth are references to organic revenue growth. organic revenue growth is a non-gaap financial measure and represents the percentage change in revenue during the current year, as compared to the same period for the prior year, net of the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, certain business acquisitions, and divestitures. organic revenue growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, or as a superior measure to, revenues reported in accordance with u.s. gaap, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. management believes that reporting organic revenue growth provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to the performance of our peers. we exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates because changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not under management's control, are subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. we calculate the impact on revenue resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the difference between the weighted average exchange rates during the current year period and the comparable prior year period to foreign currency denominated revenues for the prior year period. we also exclude from organic revenue growth the effect of certain business acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these transactions can vary dramatically from period to period, and because they either require or generate cash as an inherent consequence of the transaction, and therefore can also obscure underlying business and operating trends. we consider acquisitions to be a business when all three elements of inputs, processes and outputs are present, consistent with asu 2017-01, business combinations: (topic 805) clarifying the definition of a business. in a business combination, if substantially all the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, we do not consider these assets to be a business. a typical acquisition that we do not consider a business is a customer list asset acquisition, which does not have all elements necessary to operate a business, such as employees or infrastructure. we believe the efforts required to convert and retain these acquired customers are similar in nature to our existing customer base and therefore are included in organic revenue growth. we also use adjusted ebitda, gross debt, net debt, gross debt to adjusted ebitda ratio and net debt to adjusted ebitda ratio, all of which are non-gaap financial measures that should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for, financial measures presented according to u.s. gaap. management believes that reporting these non-gaap financial measures provides supplemental analysis to help investors further evaluate our business performance and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility. executive officers and directors . as reported previously, effective october 23, 2019, our board of directors (our board ) appointed jonathan (jay) mazelsky as our president and chief executive officer and as a director of the company. mr. mazelsky had been serving as our interim president and chief executive officer since june 28, 2019. prior to that time, since august 2012, mr. mazelsky had been an executive vice president of the company. in addition, effective november 1, 2019, lawrence d. kingsley, a company director since october 2016 and lead independent director since may 2018, was appointed as independent non-executive chairman of our board. also, effective november 1, 2019, jonathan w. ayers, our chairman and former president and chief executive officer, who had been on a medical leave of absence since june 28, 2019, stepped down as chairman of our board, ceased to be an employee of the company and transitioned to the role of external senior advisor to the company. mr. ayers continues to serve as a member of our board. while we cannot provide assurances as to whether we may experience management or other challenges in connection with our leadership transition that could adversely affect our future success, we believe that under the leadership of mr. mazelsky as president and chief executive officer and mr. kingsley as independent non-executive chairman, we will continue to successfully execute our strategy and create long-term value for shareholders, customers, and employees. in connection with the foregoing, mr. ayers and idexx entered into a mutual separation agreement pursuant to which severance payments will be made to mr. ayers, in accordance with the terms of his pre-existing employment agreement, and his outstanding stock options were modified. as a result of his severance payments and the modification of mr. ayers's outstanding stock options, we recognized a charge to operating income of approximately $13.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2019, representing the cost of the severance and an acceleration of the cost of the equity awards, which was offset by a reduction to our provision for income taxes of approximately $1.2 million, resulting in a total charge to net income of approximately $12.2 49 million, net of tax impacts. this total charge to net income is less than our previously communicated expectation of approximately $15.5 million, as a result of finalizing our income tax provision. comparisons to prior periods . our fiscal years end on december 31. unless otherwise stated, the analysis and discussion of our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including references to growth and organic growth and increases and decreases, are being compared to the equivalent prior year period. 50 twelve months ended december 31, 2019 , compared to twelve months ended december 31, 2018 total company the following table presents revenue by operating segment by u.s. markets and non-u.s., or international markets: for the years ended december 31, net revenue (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 dollar change reported revenue growth (1) percentage change from currency percentage change from acquisitions organic revenue growth (1) cag $ 2,119,183 $ 1,935,428 $ 183,755 9.5 % (1.5 %) 0.2 % 10.8 % united states 1,410,278 1,277,146 133,132 10.4 % 0.3 % 10.1 % international 708,905 658,282 50,623 7.7 % (4.6 %) 12.2 % water 132,850 125,198 7,652 6.1 % (2.6 %) 8.7 % united states 62,673 58,774 3,899 6.6 % 6.6 % international 70,177 66,424 3,753 5.7 % (4.9 %) 10.6 % lpd 132,635 130,581 2,054 1.6 % (4.2 %) 5.8 % united states 14,230 13,932 298 2.1 % 2.1 % international 118,405 116,649 1,756 1.5 % (4.7 %) 6.2 % other 22,240 22,035 205 0.9 % 0.9 % total company $ 2,406,908 $ 2,213,242 $ 193,666 8.8 % (1.8 %) 0.2 % 10.3 % united states 1,495,516 1,357,909 137,607 10.1 % 0.3 % 9.8 % international 911,392 855,333 56,059 6.6 % (4.6 %) 11.1 % (1) reported revenue growth and organic revenue growth may not recalculate due to rounding. total company revenue . the increase in both u.s. and international organic revenues was driven by strong volume gains in cag diagnostics recurring revenue, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies and expanded commercial organization that are driving increased volumes from new and existing customers in our reference laboratory business. we also had high growth in consumable revenues, supported by the impact of the continued expansion of our cag diagnostics instrument installed base globally. our water business also contributed to our overall growth, primarily from higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories. our lpd business growth was primarily due to increased demand for african swine fever testing programs and diagnostic testing for alternative food sources, including poultry, which more than offset lower recurring swine testing in china, as well as increased herd health screening. the impact of currency movements decreased revenue by 1.8% . 51 the following table presents our total company results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change total company - results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 2,406,908 $ 2,213,242 $ 193,666 8.8 % cost of revenue 1,041,359 971,700 69,659 7.2 % gross profit 1,365,549 56.7 % 1,241,542 56.1 % 124,007 10.0 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 418,193 17.4 % 387,406 17.5 % 30,787 7.9 % general and administrative 261,317 10.9 % 244,938 11.1 % 16,379 6.7 % research and development 133,193 5.5 % 117,863 5.3 % 15,330 13.0 % total operating expenses 812,703 33.8 % 750,207 33.9 % 62,496 8.3 % income from operations $ 552,846 23.0 % $ 491,335 22.2 % $ 61,511 12.5 % gross profit . the total company gross profit increase was due to higher sales volumes and a 60 basis point increase in the gross profit margin. the increase in the gross profit margin was driven by mix benefits from high growth in idexx vetlab consumable revenues, volume leverage, the favorable impact of lower product costs in our cag business, as well as the net benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio and water business. the impact from foreign currency movements increased the gross profit margin by approximately 20 basis points, including the impact of hedge gains in the current year, as compared to hedge losses in the prior year. operating expenses . sales and marketing expense increase d approximately 10%, excluding the impact of foreign currency, primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as we continue to invest in and grow our global commercial infrastructure. general and administrative expense increase d approximately 9%, excluding the impact of foreign currency, primarily from higher personnel-related costs, including costs associated with the separation agreement of our former ceo, partially offset by the benefits of cost control initiatives across our business segments. research and development expense increased primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, with an immaterial impact from foreign currency. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately 2%, including lower foreign exchange losses on settlements of foreign currency denominated transactions recorded within unallocated amounts. 52 companion animal group the following table presents revenue by product and service category for cag: for the years ended december 31, net revenue (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 dollar change reported revenue growth (1) percentage change from currency percentage change from acquisitions organic revenue growth (1) cag diagnostics recurring revenue: $ 1,828,329 $ 1,654,530 $ 173,799 10.5 % (1.6 %) 0.2 % 11.9 % idexx vetlab consumables 693,360 617,237 76,123 12.3 % (2.0 %) 14.3 % rapid assay products 232,149 217,541 14,608 6.7 % (0.8 %) 7.6 % reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services 822,497 746,794 75,703 10.1 % (1.5 %) 0.4 % 11.2 % cag diagnostics services and accessories 80,323 72,958 7,365 10.1 % (1.9 %) 12.0 % cag diagnostics capital - instruments 132,685 134,264 (1,579 ) (1.2 %) (2.0 %) 0.9 % veterinary software, services and diagnostic imaging systems 158,169 146,634 11,535 7.9 % (0.3 %) 0.9 % 7.3 % net cag revenue $ 2,119,183 $ 1,935,428 $ 183,755 9.5 % (1.5 %) 0.2 % 10.8 % (1) reported revenue growth and organic revenue growth may not recalculate due to rounding. cag diagnostics recurring revenue . the increase in cag diagnostics recurring revenue was primarily due to increased volumes in idexx vetlab consumables and reference laboratory diagnostic services, and to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. the increase in idexx vetlab consumables revenue was primarily due to higher sales volumes across all regions for our catalyst consumables, and to a lesser extent, procyte dx consumables. these increases were supported by an expansion of our instruments installed base, growth in testing by new and existing customers, our expanded menu of available tests, and to a lesser extent, benefits from higher average unit sales prices. the increase in rapid assay revenue resulted from higher sales volumes across our snap product portfolio, driven by snap 4dx plus tests, and to a lesser extent, higher average unit sales prices. the increase in reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services revenue was primarily due to the impact of higher testing volumes throughout our worldwide network of laboratories, most prominently in the u.s., resulting from increased testing from new and existing customers, supported by our differentiated diagnostic technologies, such as idexx sdma and fecal antigen testing, and to a lesser extent, higher average unit sales prices. cag diagnostic services and accessories revenue growth was primarily a result of the increase in our active installed base of instruments. cag diagnostics capital instruments revenue . the decrease in cag diagnostics capital instrument revenue reflects the impact of foreign currency movements, which reduced revenues 2.0% . excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, our revenues increased slightly, primarily due to higher catalyst and procyte instrument placements, partially offset by product mix, including lower sedivue dx placements compared to high prior year levels, as well as the lower allocated revenue per unit on our idexx vetlab instruments related to increased international placements under our customer volume commitment programs. veterinary software, services, and diagnostic imaging systems revenue . the increase in revenue was primarily due to increased veterinary software and hardware upgrades, subscription-based services, as well as higher realized prices on these 53 service offerings, and to a lesser extent, higher diagnostic imaging services as a result of the increase in our active installed base. these increases were partially offset by lower allocated revenue per unit on our diagnostic imaging systems related to increased placements under volume commitment programs. our acquisition of a software company in the second half of 2018 contributed 0.9% to reported revenue growth. the following table presents the cag segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 2,119,183 $ 1,935,428 $ 183,755 9.5 % cost of revenue 938,423 868,919 69,504 8.0 % gross profit 1,180,760 55.7 % 1,066,509 55.1 % 114,251 10.7 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 378,302 17.9 % 345,737 17.9 % 32,565 9.4 % general and administrative 212,794 10.0 % 204,425 10.6 % 8,369 4.1 % research and development 98,062 4.6 % 86,864 4.5 % 11,198 12.9 % total operating expenses 689,158 32.5 % 637,026 32.9 % 52,132 8.2 % income from operations $ 491,602 23.2 % $ 429,483 22.2 % $ 62,119 14.5 % gross profit . gross profit increased primarily due to higher sales volumes, as well as a 60 basis point increase in the gross profit margin. the increase in gross profit margin was driven by mix benefits from high growth in idexx vetlab consumable revenues, volume leverage, lower product costs, as well as the benefit of price increases in our cag diagnostics recurring revenue portfolio, partially offset by incremental investments in reference laboratory capacity and software services field resources. the impact from foreign currency movements increased the gross profit margin by approximately 10 basis points, including the impact of hedge gains in the current year, compared to hedge losses in the prior year. operating expenses . sales and marketing expenses increase d approximately 11%, excluding the impact of foreign currency, primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as we continue to invest in our global commercial infrastructure. general and administrative costs increased 5%, excluding the impact of foreign currency, primarily from higher personnel-related costs. the increase in research and development expense was primarily due to increased personnel-related costs, with an immaterial impact from foreign currency. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately 1%. 54 water the following table presents the water segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 132,850 $ 125,198 $ 7,652 6.1 % cost of revenue 36,915 37,106 (191 ) (0.5 %) gross profit 95,935 72.2 % 88,092 70.4 % 7,843 8.9 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 15,980 12.0 % 15,900 12.7 % 80 0.5 % general and administrative 13,388 10.1 % 13,005 10.4 % 383 2.9 % research and development 4,132 3.1 % 2,580 2.1 % 1,552 60.2 % total operating expenses 33,500 25.2 % 31,485 25.1 % 2,015 6.4 % income from operations $ 62,435 47.0 % $ 56,607 45.2 % $ 5,828 10.3 % revenue . the increase in revenue was attributable to the benefit of price increases and higher sales volumes of our colilert test products and related accessories, used in coliform and e. coli testing, including strong volume growth across all regions including the u.s. the impact of currency movements decreased revenue by approximately 2.6% . gross profit . gross profit for water increased due to higher sales volumes as well as a 180 basis point increase in the gross profit margin. foreign currency movements increased the gross profit margin by approximately 70 basis points, including the impact of hedge gains in the current year, as compared to hedge losses in the prior year. the remaining increase in the gross profit margin was primarily due to the net benefit of price increases, partially offset by higher distribution costs. operating expenses . while both sales and marketing and research and development expenses had higher personnel-related costs, the limited increase in sales and marketing expense and significant increase in research and development expense were primarily due to the realignment of certain personnel within operating expense categories. general and administrative expense increased primarily due to higher personnel-related costs. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately 2%. 55 livestock, poultry and dairy the following table presents the lpd segment results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 132,635 $ 130,581 $ 2,054 1.6 % cost of revenue 54,145 55,621 (1,476 ) (2.7 %) gross profit 78,490 59.2 % 74,960 57.4 % 3,530 4.7 % operating expenses: sales and marketing 22,808 17.2 % 24,594 18.8 % (1,786 ) (7.3 %) general and administrative 17,651 13.3 % 19,159 14.7 % (1,508 ) (7.9 %) research and development 12,657 9.5 % 11,795 9.0 % 862 7.3 % total operating expenses 53,116 40.0 % 55,548 42.5 % (2,432 ) (4.4 %) income from operations $ 25,374 19.1 % $ 19,412 14.9 % $ 5,962 30.7 % revenue . overall lpd revenue increased despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency movements which decreased revenue 4.2% . the prolonged outbreak of african swine fever in asia, which began in august 2018, continues to negatively impact the swine population in china; however demand for new diagnostic testing programs has increased and diagnostic testing for alternative food sources has also increased, including poultry, which more than offset the lower recurring swine testing volumes in china. revenue growth for the year also benefited from increased herd health screening, partially offset by lower bovine testing, primarily in europe. gross profit . the increase in lpd gross profit was due to higher sales volume and a 180 basis point increase in the gross profit margin. the impact from foreign currency movements increased the gross profit margin by approximately 130 basis points, including the impact of hedges. the remaining increase in the gross profit margin was driven by favorable product mix from higher herd health screening. operating expenses . sales and marketing expense decreased primarily due to lower personnel-related costs, including cost control initiatives. general and administrative expense decreased primarily due to lower third-party services. research and development expense increased primarily due to increased personnel-related costs. the overall change in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in operating expense of approximately 2%. 56 other the following table presents the other results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ 22,240 $ 22,035 $ 205 0.9 % cost of revenue 12,154 11,785 369 3.1 % gross profit 10,086 45.4 % 10,250 46.5 % (164 ) (1.6 %) operating expenses: sales and marketing 1,366 6.1 % 1,806 8.2 % (440 ) (24.4 %) general and administrative 1,991 9.0 % 3,741 17.0 % (1,750 ) (46.8 %) research and development 1,789 8.0 % 974 4.4 % 815 83.7 % total operating expenses 5,146 23.1 % 6,521 29.6 % (1,375 ) (21.1 %) income from operations $ 4,940 22.2 % $ 3,729 16.9 % $ 1,211 32.5 % revenue . the increase in other revenues was due to higher royalties associated with intellectual property related to our former pharmaceutical product line, partially offset by lower volumes of our opti medical products and services. the impact of foreign currency movements on revenue was immaterial. gross profit . gross profit for other decreased due to a 110 basis point decrease in the gross profit margin primarily due to higher opti medical service costs, partially offset by lower product costs, as well as mix benefits from increased royalties. the overall change in currency exchange rates had an immaterial impact on the gross profit margin. operating expenses . the decrease in sales and marketing was primarily due to lower personnel costs. the decrease in general and administrative cost was primarily due to the recovery of previously established bad debt reserves in africa and the middle east. the increase in research and development cost was primarily due to higher personnel-related and project costs. 57 unallocated amounts we estimate certain personnel-related costs and allocate these budgeted expenses to the operating segments. this allocation differs from actual expense and consequently yields a difference that is reported under the caption unallocated amounts. the following table presents the unallocated amounts results of operations: for the years ended december 31, change results of operations (dollars in thousands) 2019 percent of revenue 2018 percent of revenue amount percentage revenues $ $ $ n/a cost of revenue (278 ) (1,731 ) 1,453 (83.9 %) gross profit 278 1,731 (1,453 ) (83.9 %) operating expenses: sales and marketing (263 ) (631 ) 368 (58.3 %) general and administrative 15,493 4,608 10,885 236.2 % research and development 16,553 15,650 903 5.8 % total operating expenses 31,783 19,627 12,156 61.9 % income from operations $ (31,505 ) $ (17,896 ) $ (13,609 ) 76.0 % unallocated amounts . the change in unallocated amou nts was primarily due to our ceo transition costs of $13.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 and higher other unallocated employee incentive costs, partially offset by lower foreign exchange losses on settlements of foreign currency denominated transactions, lower unallocated employee benefit costs, and lower unallocated corporate function and research and development costs. non-operating items interest income . interest income was $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 , as compared to $1.2 million for the same period in the prior year. the decrease in interest income was primarily due to the liquidation of our portfolio of marketable securities during the first quarter of 2018. interest expense . interest expense was $31.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 , as compared to $34.7 million for the prior year. the decrease in interest expense was the result of lower average debt levels, offset by higher interest rates. we also realized lower interest expense from the benefit of our cross currency swaps, as well as increased capitalized interest related to the expansion of our westbrook, maine headquarters and relocation of our core reference laboratory in germany. provisions for income taxes . our effective income tax rate was 18.1% for the year ended december 31, 2019 , and 17.6% for the year ended december 31, 2018 . our effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2019 was higher primarily due to lower tax benefits related to share-based compensation, partially offset by a nonrecurring item recorded in the first quarter of 2018, that resulted from the 2017 tax cut and jobs act. during the third quarter of 2019, the swiss government enacted changes to swiss federal tax laws and required all swiss cantons to make conforming changes to their own laws. as the cantons consider how to implement the required changes through early 2020, we will continue assessing the impact, if any, of the canton's adoption of swiss federal tax reform. the impact of any such change will be recorded upon the date of canton's enactment. our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2019, was reduced by approximately 3.5% from the tax benefits related to share-based payments. we anticipate the tax benefit related to share-based payments to reduce our 2020 effective income tax rate by approximately 1.5%, based on recent settlement trends and stock price levels. these impacts may vary significantly based on the timing of actual settlement activity. 58 liquidity and capital resources we fund the capital needs of our business through cash on hand, funds generated from operations, and amounts available under our credit facility. we generate cash primarily through the payments made by customers for our diagnostic products and services, consulting services, and other various systems and services provided to the animal veterinary, livestock, poultry, dairy, and water testing markets. our cash disbursements are primarily related to compensation and benefits for our employees, inventory and supplies, taxes, research and development, capital expenditures, rents, occupancy-related charges, interest expense, and acquisitions. at december 31, 2019 , we had $90.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, as compared to $123.8 million on december 31, 2018 . working capital, including our credit facility, totaled negative $45.7 million at december 31, 2019 , as compared to negative $116.3 million at december 31, 2018 . additionally, at december 31, 2019 , we had remaining borrowing availability of $559.8 million under our $850 million credit facility. we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain additional borrowings at similar rates to our existing borrowings to fund our growth objectives. we further believe that current cash and cash equivalents, funds generated from operations, and committed borrowing availability will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital purchase requirements, and anticipated growth needs for the next twelve months. we believe that these resources, coupled with our ability, as needed, to obtain additional financing on favorable terms will also be sufficient to fund our business as currently conducted for the foreseeable future. we manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among all of our subsidiaries. our foreign cash and cash equivalents are generally available without restrictions to fund ordinary business operations outside the u.s. the 2017 tax act was enacted on december 22, 2017, and includes significant changes to the u.s. corporate tax system. the 2017 tax act reduced the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective as of january 1, 2018, and transitioned the u.s. federal tax system from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. in converting to the new territorial tax system, a deemed repatriation tax on previously tax-deferred earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries was required to be recognized as of december 31, 2017, and will be payable over eight years. we are no longer asserting indefinite reversal under asc 740-30-25 for undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries and have accrued for related tax liabilities as of december 31, 2019 . the following table presents cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically, and by our foreign subsidiaries: for the years ended december 31, cash and cash equivalents (dollars in millions) 2019 2018 u.s. $ 1.1 $ 2.0 foreign 89.2 121.8 total $ 90.3 $ 123.8 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in u.s. dollars by our foreign subsidiaries $ 6.5 $ 11.1 percentage of total cash and cash equivalents held in u.s. dollars by our foreign subsidiaries 7.2 % 9.0 % of the $90.3 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2019 , greater than 99% was held as bank deposits. of the $123.8 million of cash and cash equivalents held as of december 31, 2018 , greater than 99% was held as bank deposits. should we require more capital than is generated by our operations, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, we could raise capital through debt or equity issuances. these alternatives could result in increased interest expense and dilution of our earnings. we have borrowed funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. 59 the following table presents additional key information concerning working capital: for the three months ended december 31, 2019 september 30, 2019 june 30, 2019 march 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 days sales outstanding (1) 40.5 41.8 41.7 42.0 42.6 inventory turns (2) 2.2 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.3 (1) days sales outstanding represents the average of the accounts receivable balances at the beginning and end of each quarter divided by revenue for that quarter, the result of which is then multiplied by 91.25 days. (2) inventory turns represent inventory-related cost of product revenue for the 12 months preceding each quarter-end divided by the average inventory balances at the beginning and end of each quarter. sources and uses of cash the following table presents cash provided (used): for the years ended december 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 dollar change net cash provided by operating activities $ 459,158 $ 400,084 $ 59,074 net cash (used) provided by investing activities (205,528 ) 138,602 (344,130 ) net cash used by financing activities (286,409 ) (597,799 ) 311,390 net effect of changes in exchange rates on cash (689 ) (4,768 ) 4,079 net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (33,468 ) $ (63,881 ) $ 30,413 operating activities . the increase in cash provided by operating activities of $59.1 million during 2019 as compared to 2018 , was primarily due to the increase in net income, net of noncash items, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities. the following table presents cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities: for the years ended december 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 dollar change accounts receivable $ (22,472 ) $ (18,401 ) $ (4,071 ) inventories (37,306 ) (25,623 ) (11,683 ) accounts payable 1,957 (166 ) 2,123 deferred revenue (12,360 ) (7,719 ) (4,641 ) other assets and liabilities (34,788 ) (39,731 ) 4,943 total change in cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities $ (104,969 ) $ (91,640 ) $ (13,329 ) cash used due to changes in operating assets and liabilities during 2019, as compared to the same period in the prior year, increased approximately $13.3 million . the increase was primarily due to higher inventory levels to support greater demand. additionally, other assets increased due to higher instrument placements under our customer commitment programs, which are offset by lower deferred revenue from placements under our instrument rebate programs, as well as increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable due to growth and timing. we have historically experienced proportionally lower net cash flows from operating activities during the first quarter and proportionally higher cash flows from operating activities for the remainder of the year and for the annual period driven primarily by payments related to annual employee incentive programs in the first quarter following the year for which the bonuses were earned and the seasonality of vector-borne disease testing, which has historically resulted in significant increases in accounts receivable balances during the first quarter of the year. investing activities . cash used by investing activities was $205.5 million during 2019 as compared to $138.6 million provided during 2018 . the increase in cash used by investing activities during 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily due to sale of marketable securities in 2018, as a result of our repatriation of cash and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries, as well as increased capital spending in the current year, as we expand our westbrook, maine headquarters and relocate our core 60 reference laboratory in germany. during 2018, in connection with the passage of the 2017 tax act in the fourth quarter of 2017, we liquidated our marketable securities and used the cash to partially pay down our credit facility. our total capital expenditure plan for 2020 is estimated to be approximately $140 million to $155 million, which includes the completion of the expansion of our headquarters, the relocation and expansion of our german core reference laboratory, other capital investments in manufacturing and reference laboratory buildings and equipment, investments in internal use software and information technology infrastructure, and the renovation and expansion of our facilities and reference laboratories. financing activities . cash used by financing activities was $286.4 million during 2019 as compared to $597.8 million used during 2018 . the decrease in cash used by financing activities during 2019 as compared to 2018 was due to a larger repayment on our revolving credit facility in 2018 from repatriated foreign cash, an issuance of $100 million senior notes during the first quarter of 2019, and a decrease in repurchases of our common stock. cash used to repurchase shares of our common tock decreased by $67.7 million during 2019 , as compared to 2018 . from the inception of our share repurchase program in august 1999 to december 31, 2019 , we have repurchased 66.0 million shares for $4.1 billion. during 2019, we purchased 1.22 million shares for an aggregate cost of $303.8 million, as compared to purchases of 1.77 million shares for an aggregate cost of $368.7 million during 2018 . we believe that the repurchase of our common stock is a favorable means of returning value to our stockholders and we also repurchase our stock to offset the dilutive effect of our share-based compensation programs. repurchases of our common stock may vary depending upon the level of other investing activities and the share price. see "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations and inventory supply contracts are in the u.s. or in u.s. dollars, but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , approximately 22 % of our consolidated revenue was derived from products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and sold internationally in local currencies, as compared to 22% for the year ended december 31, 2018, and 21% for the year ended december 31, 2017. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for four of our foreign subsidiaries the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency exchange impacts are comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2020 , excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 1% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce revenue by approximately $9 million and operating income by approximately $5 million. additionally, we project our foreign currency hedge contracts in place as of december 31, 2019 , would provide incremental offsetting gains of approximately $2 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. at our current foreign exchange rate assumptions, we anticipate the effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will have an unfavorable effect on our operating results by decreasing our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share in the year ending december 31, 2020 , by approximately $11 million, $10 million, and $0.09 per share, respectively. this unfavorable impact includes foreign currency hedging activity, which is expected to decrease total company operating profit by approximately $6 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.05 in the year ending december 31, 2020 . the actual impact of changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we transact may materially differ from our expectations described above. the above estimate assumes that the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies will reflect the euro at $ 1.10 , the british pound at $ 1.29 , the canadian dollar at $ 0.76 , and the australian dollar at $ 0.68 ; and the japanese yen at 110 , the chinese renminbi at rmb 7.10 , and the brazilian real at r$ 4.14 to the u.s. dollar for the full year of 2020 . the following table presents the foreign currency exchange impacts on our revenues, operating profit, and diluted earnings per share, as compared to the respective prior periods: for the years ended december 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2019 2018 2017 revenue impact $ (38,624 ) $ 13,623 $ 6,615 operating profit impact, excluding hedge activity $ (16,947 ) $ 2,260 $ 2,542 hedge losses (gains) - prior year 976 (27 ) (3,620 ) hedge gains (losses) - current year 10,628 (976 ) 27 hedging activity impact 11,604 (1,003 ) (3,593 ) operating profit impact, including hedge activity $ (5,343 ) $ 1,257 $ (1,051 ) diluted earnings per share impact, including hedge activity $ (0.05 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.01 ) the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. if a hedging instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument from the effective portion of the hedge are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we 65 immediately record in earnings the extent to which a hedge instrument is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into other foreign currency exchange contracts or foreign-denominated debt issuances to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific balance sheet exposures, including net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. see "part ii,risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential future impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report was first filed with the securities and exchange commission and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the veterinary and the production animal, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising rapid assays, and instruments and consumables; veterinary laboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians; practice information systems and services, and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for production animals; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned the remaining pharmaceutical product lines to other business units. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we will seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties such as pharmaceutical companies. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2009 included in this annual report on form 10-k. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to we, us, the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. 3 table of contents we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. description of business by segment during 2009, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as our companion animal group ( cag ), water quality products ( water ) and products for production animal health, which we refer to as our production animal segment ( pas ). we also operate two smaller operating segments that comprise products for dairy quality ( dairy ) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ). in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical division at the end of 2008, we realigned two of our remaining product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of our cag segment, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other category. financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments and other licensing arrangements are combined and presented in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. segment information presented for the year ended december 31, 2007 has been restated to conform to our presentation of reportable segments for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2009 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and about our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated suite of in-clinic laboratory analyzers for use in providing laboratory diagnostic information in companion animal veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below: blood and urine chemistry . we sell two chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. both instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson johnson, based on ortho dry slide technology ( dry chemistry slides, catalyst dx slides, vettest slides or slides ). in addition to dry chemistry slides, the catalyst dx analyzer also uses electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at opti medical. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, bun (blood urea nitrogen), and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. the catalyst dx analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in the first quarter of 2008. the catalyst dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu relative to the vettest analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood by way of an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged clips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. the catalyst dx analyzer also has the ability to run automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 27 different chemistry and electrolyte parameter tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. 4 table of contents our vetlyte electrolyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the vetstat analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by opti medical. sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell three hematology analyzers: the lasercyte hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count ( cbc )); the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, which also provides a cbc. quantitative immunoassay testing . in the first quarter of 2008, we launched the snapshot dx analyzer, which automates snap testing for veterinarians by significantly improving ease of use, throughput and test menu, relative to the previous generation idexx snap reader. the snapshot dx analyzer obtains quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids, which assists in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, and offers multiple-patient testing functionality. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of certain idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our snap 4dx test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test and canine snap cpl test. urinalysis . the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab equipment and thus provides laboratory information management system capability. we sell the ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx and lasercyte systems and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a user interface to input patient information, connect with a practice management information system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report for the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results; and sends and receives information from practice information management systems, including idexx cornerstone and better choice systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. rapid assays we provide a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap name that allow quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these kits work without the use of instrumentation, although certain kits may also be read automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer. principal single-use canine tests include : snap 3dx , which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and heartworm; snap 4dx , which adds a test for anaplasma phagocytophilum to what is tested by snap 3dx ; snap heartworm rt, which tests only for canine heartworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus; 5 table of contents snap cpl , which tests for canine pancreatitis; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens principal single-use feline tests include : snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus) and feline leukemia virus ( felv ); snap feline triple , which tests for fiv, felv and feline heartworm; snap felv, which tests only for felv; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens sales of canine parasite tests (including snap 3dx , snap 4dx , and snap heartworm rt), are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits for canine heartworm, fiv and felv. these kits, sold under the petchek name, are used by larger clinics and laboratories to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. veterinary laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, and south africa. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in companion and production animals, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. practice information systems and digital radiography practice information systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information systems, including hardware and software, that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), billing and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone system. we also support several legacy systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice , idexx vpm and idexx vetlink . additionally, we provide software and hardware support to our practice information system customers, and related supplies and services to veterinary practice information system users in general, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals, and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement through contrast management. we market and sell three digital radiography systems: the idexx-dr 1417 and the idexx-cr 1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g., dog and cat) veterinary hospital, and the idexx equiview dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs and idexx equiview pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. 6 table of contents water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological analytes in water. our colilert , colilert -18 and colisure tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert product detects enterococci in drinking and recreational waters. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert , colilert -18, colisure or enterolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray and enterolert products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium in water. cryptosporidium is a parasite that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by life technologies corporation that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. production animal segment we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in production animals. our production animal products are purchased primarily by government laboratories and by cattle, swine and poultry producers. our largest product is a post-mortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ). effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bse in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which has been estimated to reduce the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. we may lose sales of post-mortem tests for bse in the future as a result of this regulatory change. other dairy our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap beta-lactam test. our primary customers are dairy producers and processors worldwide who use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk. we also sell a snap test for the detection of the chemical melamine in milk. opti medical systems we sell opti point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and any locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti cca and opti touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. opti medical systems also supplies our vetstat analyzer and additionally, provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst dx analyzer. 7 table of contents other activities in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical product line at the end of 2008, we realigned two of our remaining product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of our cag segment, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprises one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, from the pharmaceutical division to the other category. the financial impacts of the product line and out-licensing arrangements have been shown in the other category for 2009 and 2008. the segment information for the year ended december 31, 2007 has been restated to conform to our presentation of reportable segments for the year ended december 31, 2009 and 2008. when a research and development program materializes into a product or service offering that does not align with one of our existing product or service categories, the related financial impacts are shown in the other category. unallocated amounts items that are not allocated to our operating segments are comprised primarily of corporate research and development expenses that do not align with one of our existing product or service categories, a portion of share-based compensation expense, interest income and expense, and income taxes. we estimate our share-based compensation expense for the year and allocate the estimated expense to the operating segments. this allocation differs from the actual expense and consequently yields a difference between the total allocated share-based compensation expense and the actual expense for the total company resulting in an unallocated amount reported under the caption unallocated amounts. we maintain active research and development programs, some of which may materialize into the development and introduction of new technology, products or services. research and development costs incurred that are not specifically allocated to one of our existing product or service categories are reported under the caption unallocated amounts. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. sales and marketing expense was $167.7 million, $170.0 million and $151.9 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, or 16.3% of sales in 2009, 16.6% of sales in 2008, and 16.5% of sales in 2007. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the u.s. we market our water, production animal and dairy products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler animal health supply, llc ( butler ), accounted for 7% of our 2009 revenue and 8% of our 2008 and 2007 revenue. butler accounted for 4% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2009 and 5% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2008 and 2007. in december 2009, butler combined with the u.s. animal health business of henry schein, inc. ( schein ) to form butler schein animal health. schein accounted for 3% of our 2009, 2008 and 2007 revenue and 2% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 8 table of contents research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $65.1 million, $70.7 million and $67.3 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, or 6.3% of sales in 2009, 6.9% of sales in 2008, and 7.3% of sales in 2007. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to patents and patent applications relating to the detection of lyme disease that expire beginning in 2019; a patent concerning the colilert -18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies that expire beginning in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome that expire beginning in 2012; and an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus that expire beginning in 2017. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. significant products supplied by third parties include vettest analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), and vetautoread , vetlyte and coag dx analyzers and consumables. vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that expire in 2025. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. other analyzers and consumables are purchased under supply agreements with terms ranging from 1 year to 14 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements or require us to compensate the supplier. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. 9 table of contents we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from a single supplier. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, production animal testing kits, water testing products, and blood analyzers, including our lasercyte analyzers. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. this competition is intensifying, as some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. in addition, we expect that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary or highly differentiated products, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from large human medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. several large human diagnostic companies are indirect competitors in that they have partnered with veterinary-focused companies to provide their products and technologies to our markets. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic, water, production animal and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, quality of the information provided, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. veterinary laboratory diagnostic and consulting services . we compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, and our pricing relative to the value of our services in comparison with competitive products and services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. 10 table of contents government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, marketing and promotion, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our production animal products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , filta-max , enterolert , and simplate for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the fda. before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda approved protocol administered by aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam dairy antibiotic residue testing product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application. 11 table of contents opti products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at december 31, 2009, we had approximately 4,800 full-time and part-time employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal health care industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increased competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our historical growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and create a recurring revenue stream from consumable products; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; achieving the benefits of economies of scale in our worldwide network of laboratories; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and managing the diagnostic information derived from our products; growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us. if we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our vetautoread hematology, vetlyte electrolyte, idexx vetlab ua urinalysis, vettest chemistry, and coag dx blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products, dairy testing products and lasercyte hematology analyzers. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers we generally enter into long-term contracts that ensure an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, there can be no assurance that suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply products under our contracts, or that suppliers will always fulfill their obligations 12 table of contents under these contracts. in addition, under some of these agreements we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements or require us to compensate the supplier. also, in some cases we purchase sole and single source products or components under short-term contracts or purchase orders. in these cases we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply and to the risk that a supplier will not fulfill our requirements for products. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we may be unable to supply the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of pet visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to diagnostic testing. economic weakness in our significant markets has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to treat certain pet health conditions, approve certain diagnostic tests, or continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments. a decline in pet visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests or make capital purchases could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services. disruption in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business over the past 18 months, financial markets in the u.s., europe, australia and asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, volatility in exchange rates and security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. these economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders for our products and services. the inability of pet owners to obtain consumer credit could lead to a decline in pet visits to the veterinarian, which could result in a decrease in diagnostic testing. likewise, a decrease in diagnostic testing could negatively impact the financial condition of the veterinary practices that are our customers, which may inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided. in addition, although current economic conditions have not impacted our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, further deterioration in financial markets could adversely affect our access to capital. we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the u.s. and other countries. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the japanese yen and the australian dollar adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the margins on products manufactured in the u.s. and exported to international markets. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 24% of idexx sales were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. 13 table of contents various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda and the epa. most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and these products require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. in january 2010, we received a letter from the u.s. federal trade commission ( ftc ), stating that it was conducting an investigation to determine whether idexx or others have engaged in, or are engaging in, unfair methods of competition in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act ( ftc act ), through pricing or marketing policies for companion animal veterinary products and services, including but not limited to exclusive dealing or tying arrangements with distributors or end-users of those products or services. the letter requests that we preserve all materials potentially relevant to this investigation. the letter states that the ftc has not concluded that idexx or anyone else has violated section 5 of the ftc act. we anticipate that we will receive a subpoena from the ftc requesting that we provide the ftc with documents and information relevant to this investigation and we intend to cooperate fully with the ftc in its investigation. we cannot predict how long any investigation might be ongoing. we believe that our marketing and sales practices for companion animal veterinary products and services do not violate section 5 of the ftc act or any other antitrust law. however, it is possible that the ftc could reach a different conclusion at the end of its investigation and elect to commence an enforcement action in an administrative law court within the ftc. if the ftc were to commence an enforcement action we would expect to defend ourselves vigorously. were the ftc to prevail in the action and through all subsequent appeals, we believe that any remedies likely to be sought by the ftc under section 5 would not have a material adverse effect on our business. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in june 2009, one of the u.s. patents covering our snap fiv/felv tests expired. we had licensed this broad patent exclusively from the university of california. expiration of this patent could result in increased competition in the u.s. market for feline immunodeficiency virus tests and if so, we would expect that revenues and profit margins associated snap fiv/felv tests, including combo and triple, will likely decline. 14 table of contents in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels increases our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. see part 1. item 1 business marketing and distribution. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition will become even more intense. the introduction by competitors of new and competitive products and services could result in a decline in sales and/or profitability of our products and services. in addition, competitors may develop products or services that are superior to our products and services, which could cause us to lose existing customers and market share. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion and production animal diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our production animal products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our production animal, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bse in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which has been estimated to reduce the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. as a result, we believe that we are likely to lose a portion of our sales of post-mortem tests for bse. consolidation of veterinary hospitals could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc., national veterinary associates, and banfield, the pet hospital, each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally use their laboratory services almost exclusively and shift a large portion of their testing from in-clinic testing to their reference laboratories. in addition, because these companies compete with us in the laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. 15 table of contents our inexperience in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market upon acquiring the critical care division of osmetech plc in january 2007, we entered the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market for the first time with the sale of the opti line of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base, and more rapid technological innovation. our inexperience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary medical market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2009, 40% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, inability of our customers to obtain u.s. dollars to pay our invoices, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. in addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the u.s. and our costs are incurred in u.s. dollars. we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts and natural hedges to mitigate foreign currency exposure. however, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. additionally, a strengthening u.s. dollar could negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural disasters or system failures the operation of all of our facilities is vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply, or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant products, including our rapid assay devices, certain instruments, and most water, dairy, and production animal testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. therefore, interruption of operations at this facility would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being off the market for the period of any interruption in operations. 16 table of contents the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the year ended december 31, 2009, approximately 24% of our revenues were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for one of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. market gains and losses are deferred in other current or long-term assets or accruals, as appropriate, until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is settled. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. we identify foreign currency exchange risk by regularly monitoring our transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we attempt to mitigate currency risk by hedging the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. currency exposure on large purchases of foreign currency denominated products are evaluated in our hedging program and used as natural hedges to offset identified hedge requirements related to intercompany sales. our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2009. we enter into forward currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other specific, significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year that are in excess of amounts previously hedged. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany sales outstanding at december 31, 2009 and 2008 was $116.9 million and $97.7 million, respectively. at december 31, 2009, we had $2.9 million in net unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $1.3 million in taxes. our foreign currency exchange risk at december 31, 2009 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or our subsidiaries functional currencies. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, including the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $7.9 million in 2010. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies would have the exact opposite impact of a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies. we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of our credit facility to the extent that the libor or the cdor increases. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.375 to 0.875 percentage points above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate interest rate risk in future periods commencing march 31, 2010. borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2009 were $118.8 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.8%. based on amounts outstanding at december 31, 2009, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% until march 31, 2010 would increase interest expense by approximately $1.2 million on an annualized basis. subsequent to march 31, 2010, our forward fixed interest rate swaps commence and based on amounts outstanding at december 31, 2009, an increase in libor or the cdor of 1% would decrease interest expense by approximately $0.4 million on an annualized basis. 52 table of contents in march 2009, we entered into two forward fixed interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $80 million to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations on amounts borrowed under the terms of our credit facility. under these agreements, we will effectively fix our interest exposure on $80 million of our outstanding borrowings for the period commencing march 31, 2010, through march 30, 2012 by converting our variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments at 2% plus the credit spread. the critical terms of the fixed interest rate swap agreements match the critical terms of the underlying borrowings, including notional amounts, underlying market indices, interest rate reset dates and maturity dates. accordingly, we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges. see note 15 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk. we operate subsidiaries in 13 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. see note 2(m) to our consolidated financial statements. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with a duration of less than 12 months. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or accruals and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods. our hedging strategy provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following twelve months. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. as of december 31, 2003, the company had $3.0 million in unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $1.4 million in taxes. our currency rate exposure at december 31, 2003 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or its subsidiaries functional currency. based on our overall currency rate exposure excluding unrealized losses of $4.4 million at december 31, 2003 and $2.6 million at december 31, 2002, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies would reduce operating income by approximately $2.2 million for 2004. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2002 would have reduced operating income for 2003 by approximately $2.4 million. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies at december 31, 2003 would increase operating income by approximately $2.2 million in 2004. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2002 would have increased operating income by approximately $2.4 million in 2003. as of december 31, 2003 a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $8.1 million in 2004 , compared to $7.4 million in 2003 and the effects of a 10% weakening of u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase operating income by approximately $8.1 million in 2004 compared to $7.4 million in 2003. 30 table of contentsrisk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report was first filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables and rapid assays; veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; practice information systems and services, and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of our companion animal group ( cag ) segment, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other category. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we will seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties such as pharmaceutical companies. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2010 included in this annual report on form 10-k. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to we, us, the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. 3 we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec's web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. description of business by segment during 2010, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as cag, water quality products ( water ) and products for livestock and poultry health, which we refer to as livestock and poultry diagnostics ( lpd ). prior to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to lpd as our production animal segment. we also operate two smaller operating segments that comprise products for milk quality ( dairy ) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( opti medical ). financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments is combined and presented with one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-sourcing licensing arrangements in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2010 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated suite of in-clinic laboratory analyzers for use in providing reference laboratory diagnostic information in companion animal veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below: blood and urine chemistry . we sell two chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. both instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson, based on ortho's dry slide technology ( dry chemistry slides, catalyst dx slides, vettest slides or slides ). in addition to dry chemistry slides, the catalyst dx analyzer also uses electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at opti medical systems. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, blood urea nitrogen ( bun ), and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. the catalyst dx analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in the first quarter of 2008. the catalyst dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu options relative to the vettest analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood by way of an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. the catalyst dx analyzer also has the ability to run automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 27 different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. 4 our vetlyte electrolyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the vetstat analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by opti medical systems. sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell three hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count ( cbc )). these analyzers include the procyte dx hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the lasercyte hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in its analysis; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer. we also sell the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx analyzer is our latest generation hematology analyzer, which we launched in the third quarter of 2010. the procyte dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte and vetautoread hematology analyzers. the procyte dx analyzer provides validated results for five species (canine, feline, equine, bovine and ferret) for up to 24 different blood parameters, providing a more complete picture of each patient's health. quantitative immunoassay testing . in the first quarter of 2008, we launched the snapshot dx analyzer, which provides quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids. the snapshot dx analyzer assists in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function, and offers multiple-patient testing functionality. the snapshot dx analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of most idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our canine snap 4dx test, feline snap fiv/felv combo test, canine snap cpl test, snap feline triple test, and canine snap heartworm rt test. urinalysis . the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab equipment and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. we sell the ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx , lasercyte and procyte dx analyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a user interface to input patient information, connect with a practice management information system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results; and sends and receives information from practice information management systems, including idexx cornerstone and better choice systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. rapid assays we sell a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap name that provide quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these kits work without the use of instrumentation, although most kits may also be read automatically by the snapshot dx analyzer as discussed above. principal single-use canine tests include : snap 4dx , which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis , canine heartworm, and anaplasma phagocytophilum . snap 3dx , which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and canine heartworm; 5 snap heartworm rt, which tests only for canine heartworm; snap parvo, which tests for parvovirus; snap cpl , which tests for canine pancreatitis; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens. principal single-use feline tests include : snap feline triple , which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus), feline leukemia virus ( felv ), and feline heartworm; snap fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; snap felv, which tests only for felv; and snap giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens. sales of canine parasite tests (including snap 4dx , snap 3dx and snap heartworm rt), are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the petchek name for canine heartworm, fiv and felv. larger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, and south africa. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in companion animals and livestock and poultry, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. practice information systems and digital radiography practice information systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information systems, including hardware and software, that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), reminders, billing and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone system. we also support several legacy systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice , idexx vpm and idexx vetlink . additionally, we provide software and hardware support to our practice information system customers, and related supplies and services including cornerstone coaching, practice profile , reminder service, smartservice solutions and vetvault backup solution to veterinary practice information system users in general. we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals, and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement at the computer with a keyboard and mouse. we market and sell three digital radiography systems: the idexx-dr 1417 and the idexx-cr 1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g. dog and cat) veterinary hospital, and the idexx equiview dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. in january 2011, we began replacing the idexx-cr 1417 with the idexx i-vision cr system, our latest generation computed radiography system. as we transition from the idexx-cr 1417 to the idexx i-vision cr, we will continue to support our active installed base of systems. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs and idexx equiview pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients' medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. 6 water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological parameters in water. our colilert , colilert -18 and colisure tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert products detect enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as an indicator of microbial contamination in water. our pseudalert products detect pseudomonas in pool, spa and bottled waters. pseudomonas is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer's ear and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , enterolert or pseudalert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , enterolert and simplate for heterotropic plate count products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by life technologies corporation that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. livestock and poultry diagnostics we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in livestock and poultry. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians and producers. our products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus, bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, and various other livestock and poultry diseases. other dairy our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap beta-lactam test. our primary customers are dairy producers and processors worldwide who use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk. we also sell a snap test for the detection of the chemical melamine in milk, which we developed for the china market. 7 opti medical systems we sell opti point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, bun and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti cca and opti touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. opti medical systems also manufactures our vetstat analyzer and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst dx analyzer. other activities as discussed above, in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical product line at the end of 2008, we realigned one product line and two out-licensing arrangements to the other category, the financial impacts of which have been shown in the other segment for 2010, 2009 and 2008. when a research and development program materializes into a product or service offering that does not align with one of our existing product or service categories, the related financial impacts are shown in the other segment. unallocated amounts items that are not allocated to our operating segments are comprised primarily of corporate research and development expenses that do not align with one of our existing product or service categories, a portion of share-based compensation expense, interest income and expense, and income taxes. we report these items under the caption unallocated amounts. we estimate our share-based compensation expense for the year and allocate the estimated expense to the operating segments. this allocation differs from the actual expense and consequently yields a difference between the total allocated share-based compensation expense and the actual expense for the total company resulting in an unallocated amount. we maintain active research and development programs, some of which may materialize into the development and introduction of new technology, products or services. research and development costs incurred that are not specifically allocated to one of our existing product or service categories are reported under the caption unallocated amounts. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan, the united kingdom, and south africa. sales and marketing expense was $179.6 million, $167.7 million and $170.0 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 16.3% of revenue in each of 2010 and 2009 and 16.6% of revenue in 2008. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the u.s. and canada. we market our water, livestock and poultry and dairy products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. 8 our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler schein animal health supply, llc ( butler ), accounted for 9% of our 2010 revenue. butler was formed in december 2009 when butler animal health supply, llc combined with the u.s. animal health business of henry schein, inc. butler animal health supply, llc accounted for 7% and 8% of our 2009 and 2008 revenue, respectively. henry schein, inc. accounted for 3% of our 2009 and 2008 revenue. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $68.6 million, $65.1 million and $70.7 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 6.2% of revenue in 2010, 6.3% of revenue in 2009 and 6.9% of revenue in 2008. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to patents and patent applications that expire beginning in 2019 relating to the methods for detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; a patent concerning the colilert -18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies utilized in certain of our snap products that expire beginning in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome that expire beginning in 2012; and an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus that expire beginning in 2017. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables. significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include vettest analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), lasercyte consumables and vetautoread , vetlyte , coag dx and procyte dx analyzers and consumables. 9 vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that expire in 2025. we were required to purchase a minimum volume of chemistry slides through the end of 2010; thereafter, we do not have minimum purchase obligations. the agreements provide for price increases based upon the u.s. producer price index. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms ranging from 1 year to 14 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements or require us to compensate the supplier. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. other components. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits, water testing products, and blood analyzers, including our lasercyte and procyte dx analyzers. certain components incorporated into our snap products are supplied by moss, inc. ( moss ) under a supply agreement that moss may terminate with 24 months notice. we are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. annual price increases are capped at 3%. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. this competition is intensifying and increasing, as new competitors have entered our markets and some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. in addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietary or highly differentiated products and services, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. 10 competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic, water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, quality of the information provided, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with abaxis, inc. in respect to our veterinary diagnostic products. veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services . we compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, information management, medical consultation and our pricing relative to the value of our services in comparison with competitive products and services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda's current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , filta-max , enterolert , and simplate for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. 11 dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the fda. before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda approved protocol administered by aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam dairy antibiotic residue testing product has been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda's quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application. opti products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at february 11, 2011, we had approximately 4,800 full-time and part-time employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal health care industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and create a recurring revenue stream from consumable products, services and accessories; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and managing the diagnostic information derived from our products; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; 12 achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead and improving reliability of our instruments; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our procyte dx hematology, idexx vetautoread hematology, vetlyte electrolyte, idexx vetlab ua urinalysis, vettest chemistry, and coag dx blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; catalyst dx and vettest consumables; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products and lasercyte hematology analyzers. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers we seek where possible to enter into long-term contracts that ensure an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of sole and single source products in the future, we may be unable to supply the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of pet visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to diagnostic testing. economic weakness in our significant markets in recent years has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to treat certain pet health conditions, approve certain diagnostic tests, or continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments. a decline in pet visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests or make capital purchases could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services. this, in turn, may cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at the government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by the government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products. economic weakness in our significant markets has caused and could continue to cause our consumers to reduce their investment in such testing. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the japanese yen and the australian dollar adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and exported to international markets. for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 25%, 24% and 24%, respectively, of idexx sales were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. to mitigate such foreign currency exposure, we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the united states department of agriculture ( usda ), the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ). most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and these products require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the duration and resolution of government investigations into our marketing and sales practices for companion veterinary products and services is unpredictable in january 2010, we received a letter from the u.s. federal trade commission ( ftc ), stating that it was conducting an investigation to determine whether idexx or others have engaged in, or are engaging in, unfair methods of competition in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act ( ftc act ), through pricing or marketing policies for companion animal veterinary products and services, including but not limited to exclusive dealing or tying arrangements with distributors or end-users of those products or services. the letter requested that we preserve all materials potentially relevant to this investigation. the letter stated that the ftc has not concluded that idexx or anyone else has violated section 5 of the ftc act. 14 we received a subpoena from the ftc on april 15, 2010 requesting that we provide the ftc with documents and information relevant to this investigation and we are cooperating fully with the ftc in its investigation. we cannot predict how long any investigation might be ongoing. in november 2010, we received notification that the united kingdom office of fair trading ( oft ) was conducting an investigation to determine whether idexx had engaged in, or is engaging in, practices foreclosing the supply of companion animal diagnostic testing services in violation of the united kingdom competition act of 1998. we have provided the oft with documents and information relevant to this investigation as requested and we are cooperating fully with the oft on this matter. we cannot predict how long any investigation might be ongoing. we believe that our marketing and sales practices for companion animal veterinary products and services do not violate the antitrust laws of the u.s., u.k. or any other country. however, we cannot predict whether government investigations will lead to enforcement proceedings, or what the outcomes of those proceedings will be. were any investigation to lead to an enforcement proceeding, we would defend ourselves vigorously. even if we were required to change one or more of our marketing or sales practices as a result of any enforcement proceeding, we do not believe that any such change would have a material adverse effect on our business. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in june 2009, one of the u.s. patents covering our snap fiv/felv combo and snap feline triple tests expired. we had licensed this broad patent exclusively from the university of california. expiration of this patent could result in increased competition in the u.s. market for feline immunodeficiency virus tests and if this competition arises, we expect that revenues and profit margins associated with sales of our snap fiv/felv combo and snap feline triple tests will likely decline. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the unanticipated loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels increases our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. see part 1. item 1 business marketing and distribution. 15 increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition will become even more intense. the introduction by competitors of new and competitive products and services could result in a decline in sales and/or profitability of our products and services. in addition, competitors may develop products or services that are superior to our products and services, which could cause us to lose existing customers and market share. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which reduced the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. it is likely that the european union will increase the recommended testing age again, which will further reduce the population of cattle tested, depending on the extent to which each country in the european union decides to adopt the new guidelines. the demand for this product may be impacted as a result of this and future regulatory changes. consolidation of veterinary hospitals could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc., national veterinary associates and banfield pet hospital, each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. decisions by larger corporate owners to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally use their reference laboratory services almost exclusively and shift a large portion of their testing from in-clinic testing to their reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our limited experience in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base, and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary medical market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. 16 risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2010, 41% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural disasters or system failures the operation of all of our facilities is vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply, or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock and poultry testing products at a single facility in westbrook, maine. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands, and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; and wetherby, the united kingdom. therefore, interruption of operations at any of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a system disruption in the information technology systems that enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being off the market for the period of any interruption in operations. the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors' product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, or if they expire or are renewed at less favorable terms, our inability to realize these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 25%, 24% and 24%, respectively, of idexx sales were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for one of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into forward exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. market gains and losses are deferred in other current or long-term assets or accruals, as appropriate, until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is settled. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. we identify foreign currency exchange risk by regularly monitoring our transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we attempt to mitigate currency risk by hedging the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. currency exposure on large purchases of foreign currency denominated products are evaluated in our hedging program and used as natural hedges to offset identified hedge requirements related to intercompany sales. 51 our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2010. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other specific, significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year that are in excess of amounts previously hedged. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany sales outstanding at december 31, 2010 and 2009 was $133.2 million and $116.9 million, respectively. at december 31, 2010, we had $1.5 million in net unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $0.7 million in taxes. our foreign currency exchange risk is comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses, 2) the impact of settled hedge contracts, and 3) intercompany and trade balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2011 excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the usd would reduce operating income by approximately $8 million. the impact of the intercompany and trade balances referred to in the third component above has been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of our credit facility to the extent that the london interbank rate ( libor ) or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers' acceptance rate ( cdor ) increases. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.375 to 0.875 percentage points ( credit spread ) above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate interest rate risk in future periods. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2010 were $129.0 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.9%. based on amounts outstanding at december 31, 2010, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $0.5 million on an annualized basis. in march 2009, we entered into two forward fixed interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $80 million to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations on amounts borrowed under the terms of our credit facility. under these agreements, beginning on march 31, 2010 we effectively fixed our interest exposure on $80 million of our outstanding borrowings through march 30, 2012 by converting our variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments at 2% plus the credit spread. the critical terms of the fixed interest rate swap agreements match the critical terms of the underlying borrowings, including notional amounts, underlying market indices, interest rate reset dates and maturity dates. accordingly, we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities.risk factors&rdquo; in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission (&ldquo;sec&rdquo;) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, water testing and dairy markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: &middot; point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising instruments and consumables and rapid assays; &middot; veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services used by veterinarians; &middot; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for livestock and poultry; &middot; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; &middot; practice management systems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; &middot; products that test milk for antibiotic residues and other contaminants; and &middot; point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to &ldquo;we,&rdquo; &ldquo;us,&rdquo; the &ldquo;company,&rdquo; or &ldquo;idexx&rdquo; include our wholly-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec&rsquo;s web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec&rsquo;s public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. 3 description of business by segment during 2011, we operated primarily through three business segments: diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group (&ldquo;cag&rdquo;), water quality products (&ldquo;water&rdquo;) and products for livestock and poultry health, which we refer to as livestock and poultry diagnostics (&ldquo;lpd&rdquo;). prior to the second quarter of 2010, we referred to lpd as our production animal segment. we also operate two smaller operating segments that comprise products for milk quality and safety (&ldquo;dairy&rdquo;) and products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market (&ldquo;opti medical&rdquo;). financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments is combined and presented with one of our remaining pharmaceutical product lines and our out-licensing arrangements in an &ldquo;other&rdquo; category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2011 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated suite of in-clinic laboratory analyzers for use in providing reference laboratory quality diagnostic results in companion animal veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab &reg; suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab &reg; suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products, all of which are described below: blood and urine chemistry . we sell two chemistry analyzers, the catalyst dx &reg; chemistry analyzer and the vettest &reg; chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. both instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. (&ldquo;ortho&rdquo;), a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson, based on ortho&rsquo;s dry slide technology (&ldquo;catalyst dx &reg; slides,&rdquo; &ldquo;vettest &reg; slides&rdquo; or &ldquo;slides&rdquo;). in addition, the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer also uses dry slide electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at opti medical systems, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), albumin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (&ldquo;bun&rdquo;), and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein:creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer is our latest generation chemistry analyzer, which was launched in 2008. the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu relative to the vettest &reg; analyzer, including the ability to run electrolytes. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood using an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged, multi-slide clips in addition to single chemistry slides, and an automated metering system. the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer also enables automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein:creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple patient samples simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; to perform 28 different chemistry and electrolyte tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. our vetlyte &reg; electrolyte analyzer measures three electrolytes&mdash;sodium, potassium and chloride&mdash;to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat &reg; electrolyte and blood gas analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states, evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat &reg; analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. the vetstat &reg; analyzer and its cassettes are manufactured by opti medical systems. 4 sales of consumables for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab &reg; equipment. hematology . we sell three hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets (also called a complete blood count (&ldquo;cbc&rdquo;)). these analyzers include the procyte dx &reg; hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry, optical fluorescence and laminar-flow impedance in its analysis; the lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology in its analysis; and the idexx vetautoread &trade; hematology analyzer. we also sell the coag dx &trade; analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. the procyte dx &reg; analyzer is our latest generation hematology analyzer, which we launched in the third quarter of 2010. the procyte dx &reg; analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, accuracy and more complete medical information relative to the lasercyte &reg; and vetautoread &trade; hematology analyzers. the procyte dx &reg; analyzer provides validated results for five species (canine, feline, equine, bovine and ferret) for up to 24 different blood parameters, providing a more complete picture of each patient&rsquo;s health. quantitative immunoassay testing . with multiple-patient testing functionality, the snapshot dx &reg; analyzer provides quantitative measurements of total thyroxine (&ldquo;t 4 &rdquo;), cortisol and bile acids to assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function. the snapshot dx &reg; analyzer also reads, interprets and records the results of many idexx rapid assay snap &reg; tests, including our canine snap &reg; 4dx &reg; test, feline snap &reg; fiv/felv combo test, canine snap &reg; cpl &trade; test, feline snap &reg; fpl &trade; test, snap &reg; feline triple test and canine snap &reg; heartworm rt test. urinalysis . the idexx vetlab &reg; ua &trade; analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab &reg; station . the idexx vetlab &reg; station (&ldquo;ivls&rdquo;) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the idexx vetlab &reg; equipment and thus provides reference laboratory information management system capability. we sell the ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx &reg; , lasercyte &reg; and procyte dx &reg; analyzers and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a user interface to input patient information, connect with a practice management system and send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report incorporating all of the lab work generated by the idexx vetlab &reg; suite; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap &reg; test results; and sends and receives information from practice management systems, including the idexx cornerstone &reg; system, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. ivls also connects back to idexx through smartservice tm , a secure internet link that enables us to provide diagnostic service and support for certain idexx vetlab &reg; instruments through remote access. rapid assays we sell a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap &reg; name that provide quick, accurate and convenient diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these kits work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be read automatically by the snapshot dx &reg; analyzer as discussed above. principal single-use canine tests include : &middot; snap &reg; 4dx &reg; , which tests for the tick-borne diseases lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and anaplasma phagocytophilum and the mosquito-borne disease canine heartworm; &middot; snap &reg; 3dx &reg; , which tests for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and canine heartworm; &middot; snap &reg; heartworm rt, which tests only for canine heartworm; &middot; snap &reg; parvo, which tests for parvovirus, a virus causing life-threatening damage to immune and intestinal systems; &middot; snap &reg; cpl &trade; , which tests only for canine pancreatitis; 5 &middot; snap &reg; giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens, a common cause of waterborne infection; and &middot; snap &reg; leishmania, which tests for a parasitological disease (&ldquo;leishmania&rdquo;) transmitted by mosquitoes that affects biological systems and vital organs. principal single-use feline tests include : &middot; snap &reg; feline triple &reg; , which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (&ldquo;fiv&rdquo;) (which is similar to the human aids virus), feline leukemia virus (&ldquo;felv&rdquo;), and feline heartworm; &middot; snap &reg; fiv/felv combo test, which tests for fiv and felv; &middot; snap &reg; felv, which tests only for felv; &middot; snap &reg; fpl &trade; , which we launched during the second quarter of 2011 and tests for feline pancreatitis; and &middot; snap &reg; giardia , which is a fecal test for soluble giardia antigens. sales of canine parasite tests, including snap &reg; 4dx &reg; , snap &reg; 3dx &reg; and snap &reg; heartworm rt, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits under the petchek &reg; name for canine heartworm, fiv and felv. larger clinics and laboratories use these kits to test multiple samples and provide ease-of-use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. we expect to introduce snap &reg; 4dx &reg; plus to the u.s. market during the second quarter of 2012, pending approval from the u.s. department of agriculture (&ldquo;usda&rdquo;). this next generation product tests for two additional tick-borne analytes, ehrlichia ewingii and anaplasma platys , in addition to those analytes currently tested by snap &reg; 4dx &reg; . reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services reference laboratory diagnostic services. we offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, south africa, china and south korea and to bioresearch customers in the u.s. and europe. customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including virtually all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. this menu of tests also includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases. in november 2011, we acquired the research and diagnostic laboratory (&ldquo;radil&rdquo;) business of the college of veterinary medicine from the university of missouri. radil provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to bioresearch customers. the financial results of radil are reflected in the financial results of our reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services business. the acquisition of radil did not have a material effect on our results of operation in 2011 and are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operation in 2012. consulting services. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet. 6 practice management systems and digital radiography practice management systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice management systems, including hardware and software, and services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), reminders, billing and inventory management. our principal practice management system is cornerstone &reg; . we also support several legacy practice management systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice &reg; , idexx vpm &trade; and idexx vetlink &reg; . our services include cornerstone &reg; coaching, practice profile&trade;, reminder service, smartservice&trade; solutions, vetvault &reg; backup solution and petdetect &reg; pet identification system. certain of our services are compatible with non-idexx practice management systems. we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. we market and sell two digital radiography systems for use in the small animal veterinary hospital: the idexx-dr&trade; 1417 and the idexx i-vision cr&trade;. the i-vision cr&trade; is our latest generation computed radiography system, which we launched in january 2011. we also market and sell the idexx equiview &reg; dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs &trade; and idexx equiview pacs &trade; picture archiving and communication system (&ldquo;pacs&rdquo;) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients&rsquo; medical records in the cornerstone &reg; system, as well as transferred to other practice management systems. in september 2011, we launched idexx i-vision mobile &trade; , an application that allows veterinarians with the idexx-dr&trade; 1417 and idexx i-vision cr&trade; systems, as well as our legacy digital radiography systems, to request, view and send images using an ipad &reg; or an android &reg; mobile tablet. this application integrates with our idexx-pacs &trade; software. water we offer a range of products used in the detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water. our principal products are the colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18 and colisure &reg; tests, which simultaneously detect the presence of total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency (&ldquo;epa&rdquo;) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert &reg; products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste and recreational waters. enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as an indicator of microbial contamination in water. our pseudalert&trade; products detect the presence of pseudomonas in pool, spa and bottled waters. pseudomonas is a pathogen that can cause &ldquo;hot-tub rash,&rdquo; &ldquo;swimmer&rsquo;s ear&rdquo; and potentially fatal infections in immunocompromised individuals . our filta-max &reg; and filta-max xpress &reg; products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium and giardia in water. cryptosporidium and giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. we also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by life technologies corporation that complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. our quanti-tray &reg; products, when used in conjunction with our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; , enterolert &reg; or pseudalert&trade; products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. our simplate for heterotropic plate count product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. we also sell consumables, parts and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. 7 livestock and poultry diagnostics we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in livestock and poultry. our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to cattle, swine and poultry veterinarians and producers. our principal products include tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus (&ldquo;bvdv&rdquo;), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (&ldquo;prrs&rdquo;) and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (&ldquo;bse&rdquo; or &ldquo;mad cow disease&rdquo;). bvdv is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. prrs is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases. bse is a fatal neurodegenerative disease in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. other dairy the principal products in our dairy business are our snap &reg; tests used to detect antibiotic drug-residue in milk. dairy producers and processors worldwide use our tests for quality and safety assurance of raw milk. our primary product line for detecting antibiotic residue in milk is snap &reg; beta-lactam, which detects penicillin, amoxicillin, ceftiofur and cephaphirin residues, followed by snapduo &reg; beta-tetra, which detects certain tetracycline antibiotic residues in addition to those detected by the snap &reg; beta lactam test kits. we also sell snap &reg; tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as chemical melamine and alfatoxin m1. opti medical systems we sell opti &reg; point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, bun and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti &reg; cca and opti &reg; touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti &reg; r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti &reg; lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. opti medical systems also manufactures our vetstat &reg; analyzer and provides the electrolyte module and dry slide reagents that make up the electrolyte testing functionality of the catalyst dx &reg; analyzer. other activities in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx &reg; and surpass &reg; veterinary pharmaceutical products and a feline insulin product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical division and realigned two of our pharmaceutical product lines to the rapid assay line of business, which is part of cag, and realigned the remainder of the products, which comprised of one product line and two out-licensing arrangements in effect at the time of the realignment, to the other segment. we retained certain drug delivery technologies that we have continued to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, that we also include in the other segment. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2011 included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business. since realignment to the rapid assay line of business, we have discontinued the production and sale of one of the remaining pharmaceutical product lines. neither this product line nor the second remaining product line is or was a significant contributor to revenue in the rapid assay line of business. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan, the united kingdom, south africa, poland and south korea. sales and marketing expense was $204.9 million, $179.6 million and $167.7 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 16.8% of revenue in 2011 and 16.3% of revenue in each of 2010 and 2009. 8 generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by distributors. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force and through distributors primarily in the u.s. and canada. we market our water, livestock and poultry and dairy products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti &reg; electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and we sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti &reg; products primarily through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler schein animal health supply, llc (&ldquo;butler&rdquo;), accounted for 9% of our revenue in each of 2011 and 2010. butler was formed in december 2009 when butler animal health supply, llc combined with the u.s. animal health business of henry schein, inc. together these organizations accounted for 10% of our revenue in 2009. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $76.0 million, $68.6 million and $65.1 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 6.2% of revenue in 2011 and 2010 and 6.3% of revenue in 2009. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: &middot; exclusive licenses from the university of texas and tulane university to patents that expire in 2017 and 2019, respectively, relating to reagents and methods for the detection of lyme disease utilized in certain of our snap &reg; products and a reference laboratory diagnostic test; &middot; a patent concerning the colilert &reg; -18 product that expires in 2014; &middot; a patent concerning the quanti-tray &reg; product that expires in 2014; &middot; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap &reg; products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; &middot; patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies utilized in certain of our snap &reg; products that expire beginning in 2014; &middot; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting prrs that expire in 2014; and &middot; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see &ldquo;part i, item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; 9 production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. in some cases these third parties are sole or single source suppliers. instruments and consumables. significant products supplied by sole and single source providers include vettest &reg; analyzers and consumables, catalyst dx &reg; consumables (other than electrolyte consumables), lasercyte &reg; consumables and vetautoread &trade; , vetlyte &reg; , coag dx &trade; and procyte &reg; analyzers and consumables. vettest &reg; slides and catalyst dx &reg; chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire at the end of 2028. we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest &reg; slides and catalyst dx &reg; chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. through 2012, the agreements provide for price increases based upon the u.s. producer price index. starting in 2013, the agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. the agreements also prohibit ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary market other than to idexx. we purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms ranging up to 21 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. see &ldquo;part i, item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; other components. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from sole and single source suppliers. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap &reg; rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products. certain components incorporated into our snap &reg; products are supplied by moss, inc. (&ldquo;moss&rdquo;) under a supply agreement that moss may terminate with 24 months notice. we are required annually to purchase a minimum amount from moss equal to our average purchase volumes in 2004, 2005 and 2006. annual price increases are capped at 3%. pursuant to the terms of the supply agreement, moss has escrowed its manufacturing information relating to the components, which may be released to us upon certain triggering events that would render moss incapable of supplying the components to us. if such a triggering event occurs, we will make royalty payments to moss for the use of such information until moss is able to again begin manufacturing. we have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see &ldquo;part i, item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. this competition is intensifying and increasing, as new competitors have entered our markets and some of our competitors have expanded the range of products and services offered to the companion animal veterinary market and expanded the geographic scope of their operations. in addition, we have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position will depend on our ability to develop proprietary or highly differentiated products and services, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. 10 we compete with many companies ranging from large human pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. our competitors vary in our different markets. in some markets, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. several of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: &middot; companion animal diagnostic offerings. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, technology, information management, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc., and abaxis, inc. &middot; water, livestock and poultry and dairy testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. &middot; practice management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with butler with respect to our practice management products and services. &middot; electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market . we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture (&ldquo;usda&rdquo;) animal and plant health inspection service (&ldquo;aphis&rdquo;). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products and are required to obtain special approval to import products into to the u.s. for distribution from our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france. we have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our manufacturing facility in montpellier, france has been approved by aphis and we have a permit to import products manufactured in montpellier, france to the u.s. for distribution. 11 our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are veterinary medical devices regulated by the u.s. fda under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the &ldquo;fdc act&rdquo;). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda&rsquo;s current good manufacturing practices regulations (&ldquo;cgmp&rdquo;), these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union (&ldquo;eu&rdquo;) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity (&ldquo;ce&rdquo;) marking for their products. water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert &reg; , colilert &reg; -18, colisure &reg; , quanti-tray &reg; , filta-max &reg; , enterolert &reg; , and simplate &reg; for heterotropic plate counts products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments (&ldquo;ncims&rdquo;) milk-monitoring programs are regulated by the fda as veterinary medical devices. however, before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the association of analytical communities research institute (&ldquo;aoac ri&rdquo;). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap &reg; beta-lactam antibiotic residue test products have been approved by the fda, ncims and aoac ri for sale in the u.s. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti &reg; instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti &reg; products. the fda&rsquo;s quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti &reg; products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. opti &reg; medical products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see &ldquo;part i, item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; employees at february 10, 2012, we had approximately 5,100 full-time and part-time employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. 12 our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal health care industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: &middot; developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved in-clinic laboratory analyzers that drive sales of idexx vetlab &reg; instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories; &middot; developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; &middot; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products; &middot; providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care; &middot; achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs; &middot; achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments; &middot; expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; &middot; identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and &middot; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. if we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our procyte dx &reg; hematology, idexx vetautoread &trade; hematology, vetlyte &reg; electrolyte, idexx vetlab &reg; ua &trade; urinalysis, vettest &reg; chemistry, and coag dx &trade; blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; catalyst dx &reg; and vettest &reg; consumables; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap &reg; rapid assay devices, water testing products, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products and lasercyte &reg; hematology analyzers. to mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that ensure an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. however, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. there can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. in cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or, as in the case of our contract with moss, inc. (&ldquo;moss&rdquo;), require us to compensate the supplier. moss supplies us with certain components incorporated into our snap &reg; products. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of sole and single source products in the future, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. further, products that meet release criteria may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could necessitate field actions that would require the company to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products and could damage customer relations. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services or increased customer credit risk a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of pet visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing and the pet owner compliance with these recommendations. economic weakness in our significant markets in recent years has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. a decline in pet visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests or make capital purchases could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at the government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. availability of funds also affects demand by the government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against non-u.s. currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen and australian dollar, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in u.s. dollars and exported to international markets. for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 26%, 25% and 24%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. to mitigate such foreign currency exposure, we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts. a strengthening u.s. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. 14 various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the united states department of agriculture (&ldquo;usda&rdquo;), the u.s. food and drug administration (&ldquo;fda&rdquo;) and the u.s. environmental protection agency (&ldquo;epa&rdquo;). our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline snap &reg; tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti &reg; line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and these products require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. the duration and resolution of the ftc investigation into our marketing and sales practices for companion animal veterinary products and services are unpredictable in january 2010, we received a letter from the u.s. federal trade commission (&ldquo;ftc&rdquo;), stating that it was conducting an investigation to determine whether idexx or others have engaged in, or are engaging in, unfair methods of competition in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act (&ldquo;ftc act&rdquo;), through pricing or marketing policies for companion animal veterinary products and services, including but not limited to exclusive dealing or tying arrangements with distributors or end-users of those products or services. the letter requested that we preserve all materials potentially relevant to this investigation. the letter stated that the ftc has not concluded that idexx or anyone else has violated section 5 of the ftc act. we received subpoenas from the ftc, on april 15, 2010 and august 8, 2011, requesting that we provide the ftc with documents and information relevant to this investigation and we are cooperating fully with the ftc in its investigation. we believe that the ftc staff is nearing conclusion of its investigations and that the ftc is commencing its internal process to determine whether to file a complaint against idexx in the administrative law court within the ftc. we now understand that the ftc is considering whether idexx has violated section 2 of the sherman antitrust act and is not focusing on potential violations of section 5 of the ftc act. in an administrative action the ftc would have the power to seek prospective remedies but not financial penalties. we believe that our marketing and sales practices for companion animal veterinary products and services do not violate applicable antitrust laws. however, we cannot predict whether the ftc investigation will lead to an enforcement proceeding, or what the outcome of that proceeding would be. were this investigation to lead to an enforcement proceeding, we would defend ourselves vigorously. were we to be unsuccessful in defending this proceeding and any applicable appeals, we could be subject to restrictions on certain of our marketing and sales practices. while we cannot be certain about what prospective remedies would be sought by the ftc in any such proceeding, we believe that any required changes in our marketing or sales practices would not have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. 15 we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the unanticipated loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels increases our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. see &ldquo;part i. item 1 business &ndash; marketing and distribution&rdquo; in our annual report on form 10-k for additional information. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. new competitors may enter our markets and new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. in addition, multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering similar products and services to ours at lower sales prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion animal and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (&ldquo;bse&rdquo; or &ldquo;mad cow disease&rdquo;) in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which reduced the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. in february 2011, the european union&rsquo;s standing committee on the food chain and animal health agreed to allow its member states to further raise the recommended testing age to 72 months, effective july 1, 2011, which is further reducing the population of cattle tested. the demand for our bse testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of these regulatory changes. increase in corporate hospital ownership could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc., national veterinary associates and banfield pet hospital, each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. while we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups that we believe are positive for our business, decisions by larger corporate owners, in particular banfield pet hospital, to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations, which could be material. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, our primary competitor in the u.s. and canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies generally use their reference laboratory services almost exclusively and shift a large portion of their testing from in-clinic testing to their reference laboratories. furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market we have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. this market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately 43% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s., compared to 41% for the year ended december 31, 2010. various possible risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters and unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets. further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period. 17 our operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters or system failures the operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. while we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. we manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock and poultry testing products, at a single facility in westbrook, maine. certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in roswell, georgia. we also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in bern, switzerland and montpellier, france. in addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in north america and in the netherlands and major reference laboratories in memphis, tennessee; ludwigsburg, germany; sacramento, california; elmhurst, illinois; north grafton, massachusetts; east brisbane, australia; markham, ontario; and wetherby, the united kingdom. therefore, interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a system disruption that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. we maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. in addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management&rsquo;s attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors&rsquo; product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, or if they expire or are renewed at less favorable terms, our inability to realize these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. 18 restrictions in our credit facility or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may limit our activities in july 2011, we refinanced our existing $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated unsecured revolving credit facility (the new credit facility and the previous credit facility are referred to collectively as the &ldquo;credit facility&rdquo;) in the principal amount of $300 million. our ability to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable affirmative, negative and financial covenants . our failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt and possibly on terms not deemed favorable. we fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility. if we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany purchases and sales of products and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 26%, 25% and 24%, respectively, of idexx sales were derived from products manufactured in the u.s. and sold internationally in local currencies. the functional currency of most of our subsidiaries is their local currency. for one of our subsidiaries located in the netherlands, the functional currency is the u.s. dollar. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. our corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are either recognized in earnings or deferred in other comprehensive income (&ldquo;oci&rdquo;), net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. we primarily utilize foreign currency exchange contracts with durations of less than 24 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk associated with their forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and sales for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. 52 our foreign currency hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2011. we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany purchases and sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of operations. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases and sales provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the current and following year that are in excess of amounts previously hedged. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany purchases and sales outstanding at december 31, 2011 and 2010 was $161.8 million and $133.2 million, respectively. at december 31, 2011, we had $4.1 million in net unrealized gains on foreign currency exchange contracts designated as hedging instruments recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $1.0 million in taxes. our foreign currency exchange risk is comprised of three components: 1) local currency revenues and expenses; 2) the impact of settled hedge contracts; and 3) intercompany and monetary balances for our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency that is different from the functional currency used by each subsidiary. based on projected revenues and expenses for 2012 excluding the impact of intercompany and trade balances denominated in currencies other than the functional subsidiary currencies, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar would reduce operating income by approximately $8 million. the impact of the intercompany and monetary balances referred to in the third component above have been excluded, as they are transacted at multiple times during the year and we are not able to reliably forecast the impact that changes in exchange rates would have. in july 2011, we refinanced our existing $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility by entering into an amended and restated credit agreement relating to a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $300 million with a syndicate of multinational banks, which matures on july 25, 2016 (the new credit facility and the previous credit facility are referred to collectively as the &ldquo;credit facility&rdquo;). we are subject to interest rate risk based on the terms of our credit facility to the extent that the london interbank rate (&ldquo;libor&rdquo;) or the canadian dollar-denominated bankers&rsquo; acceptance rate (&ldquo;cdor&rdquo;) increases. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.875 to 1.25 percentage points (the range of applicable interest rates on borrowing under the new credit facility and the previous credit facility are referred to collectively as the &ldquo;credit spread&rdquo;) above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and the interest period terms for the outstanding borrowings, which range from one to six months. as discussed below, we have entered into forward fixed interest rate swaps to mitigate interest rate risk in future periods. borrowings outstanding under the credit facility at december 31, 2011 were $243.0 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.7%. based on amounts outstanding at december 31, 2011, an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $1.6 million on an annualized basis. in 2009, we entered into two forward fixed interest rate swap agreements to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations. under these agreements, beginning on march 31, 2010 the variable interest rate associated with $80 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility became effectively fixed at 2% plus the credit spread through march 30, 2012. in august 2011, we entered into two additional forward fixed interest rate swap agreements for the same purpose. under these agreements, beginning on march 30, 2012, the variable interest rate associated with $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility will become effectively fixed at 1.36% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016 and beginning on march 28, 2013, the variable interest rate associated with an additional $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility will become effectively fixed at 1.64% plus the credit spread through june 30, 2016. we have designated these swaps as qualifying instruments to be accounted for as cash flow hedges. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. 53risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential future impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annul report was first filed with the securities and exchange commission and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the veterinary and the food and water testing markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising rapid assays and instruments and consumables; laboratory and consulting services used by veterinarians; information products and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; veterinary pharmaceutical products; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for production animals; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human medical diagnostics market. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to we, us; the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. 3 table of contents recent developments on october 25, 2007, our board of directors approved a two-for-one split of the outstanding shares of our common stock, to be effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. each holder of common stock of record as of november 5, 2007 received one additional share of common stock. the additional shares of common stock were distributed on november 26, 2007. all share and per share data (except par value) in this form 10-k have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the stock split for all periods presented. products and services during 2007, we operated primarily through three business segments: products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as our companion animal group ( cag ), water quality products ( water ) and products for production animal health, which we refer to as the production animal segment ( pas ). we also operate two smaller segments that comprise products for dairy quality, which we refer to as dairy, and products for the human medical diagnostic market, which we refer to as opti medical. financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments are combined and presented in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. we added the opti medical operating segment in connection with our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of the critical care division of osmetech plc in january 2007. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2007 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and about our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated and highly flexible suite of in-house laboratory analyzers for use in veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products that are described below: blood and urine chemistry . our vettest chemistry analyzer is used to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine in order to assist the veterinarian in diagnosing physiologic conditions. twenty-six separate tests can be performed on the vettest chemistry analyzer and additional parameters can be calculated. blood tests commonly run include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) and total protein. the vettest chemistry analyzer also runs tests for urine protein/urine creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels, such as the preanesthetic panel, the general health profile, the equine health panel, the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) monitoring panel, the avian health profile, the quality control panel and the diagnostic health profile. our vetlyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as bicarbonate and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. we purchase all of the reagents used in the vettest chemistry analyzer ( dry chemistry slides or vettest slides ) from ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson johnson. see the section below within item i, production and supply. in october 2003, we entered into an agreement with ortho under which we are developing a next-generation chemistry analyzer for the veterinary market, named catalyst dx , which is based primarily on ortho dry-slide technology. ortho will provide slide consumables used in both the vettest chemistry analyzer and the new analyzer, catalyst dx , through 2025. catalyst dx will provide significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu, including the ability to run electrolytes. we expect catalyst dx to be commercially available in early 2008 and we will be manufacturing this instrument. we also expect to be selling and supporting vettest for the foreseeable future. 4 table of contents chemistry reagent sales for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell two hematology analyzers: the lasercyte hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets; and the vetautoread hematology analyzer. quantitative immunoassay testing . the idexx snap reader allows the veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids, which assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function. we have under development and plan to launch a new quantitative immunoassay platform called snapshot dx in early 2008. this product will replace the idexx snap reader. snapshot dx is designed to significantly improve ease of use, throughput and menu. we will manufacture this instrument and its consumables internally. blood coagulation . in late 2007 we introduced the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. urinalysis . our idexx vetlab ua urinalysis analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . we sell idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) as an integral component of the lasercyte system (and catalyst dx following launch) and also as a standalone hardware platform. in both cases, ivls physically connects and integrates all the idexx vetlab equipment and provides a laboratory information management system capability. ivls includes a user interface to run the individual equipment; generates one integrated patient report; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results; and connects to practice information management systems, including idexx cornerstone and better choice systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. rapid assays we provide a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap name that allow quick, accurate and convenient test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these products enable veterinarians to provide improved service to animal owners by delivering test results and a diagnosis at the time of the patient visit, allowing the veterinarian to initiate therapy or prevention, if required. these kits work without the use of instrumentation. our principal single-use tests include canine combination parasite tests called snap 3dx , which tests simultaneously for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and heartworm, and snap 4dx , which additionally tests for anaplasma phagocytophilum ; a canine heartworm-only test; canine tests for parvovirus and pancreatitis; a feline combination test, the snap combo fiv antibody/felv antigen test, which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus) and feline leukemia virus ( felv ); a feline test for felv only; and canine and feline tests for giardia , a parasitic disease. sales of canine parasite tests, including the heartworm only test, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits, under the petchek name, that are used by larger clinics and laboratories to test multiple samples. petchek tests offer accuracy, ease of use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. we currently sell petchek tests for canine heartworm disease, fiv, and felv. veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, and south africa. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in production and companion animals. 5 table of contents additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including cardiology, radiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services permit veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet from the veterinarians offices. practice information systems and digital radiography practice information systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information systems, including hardware and software that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including patient electronic health records management, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), billing, and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone system. we also provide software and hardware support to our practice information system customers, and related supplies and services to veterinary practice information system users in general, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement through contrast management. we market and sell three digital radiography systems, the idexx-dr 1417 and the idexx-cr 1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g., dog and cat) veterinary hospital, and the idexx equiview dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the idexx-pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. pharmaceutical products we develop and commercialize pharmaceuticals for the veterinary market. we currently market and sell four pharmaceutical products: pzi vet , an insulin product for the treatment of diabetic cats; acarexx (0.01% ivermectin) otic suspension for the treatment of ear mites in cats; surpass (1% diclofenac sodium), a topical, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug for equine use; and navigator (32% nitazoxanide) antiprotozoal oral paste, a treatment for equine protozoal myeloencephalitis ( epm ). see part i, item 1a. risk factors we may be required to discontinue sales of one of our veterinary pharmaceutical products. water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological analytes in water. our colilert , colilert -18 and colisure tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. our enterolert product detects enterococci in drinking and recreational waters. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert , colilert -18, colisure or enterolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert , colilert -18, colisure and quanti-tray products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. 6 table of contents our filta-max product is used in the detection of cryptosporidium in water. cryptosporidium is a parasite that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. testing of water supplies for cryptosporidium has been mandated by regulation only in the united kingdom. on december 29, 2006, the drinking water inspectorate in the u.k. published a proposal to discontinue the regulation that requires testing water supplies for cryptosporidium . subsequently, regulatory changes were approved and will become effective january 1, 2009. beginning in 2009, therefore, we believe that we may lose a substantial portion of our sales of filta-max products in england and wales, which were $2.8 million in the year ended december 31, 2007. effective september 2007, we commenced distribution of certain water testing kits manufactured by invitrogen corporation ( invitrogen ). the invitrogen kits complement our idexx developed cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. production animal segment we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in production animals. our production animal products are purchased primarily by government laboratories and poultry, cattle and swine producers. our largest product is a post-mortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ). other significant products include ante-mortem diagnostic tests for porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( prrs ), pseudorabies ( prv ) in pigs and bovine viral diarrhea ( bvdv ) virus in cattle. other dairy our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap beta-lactam test. our primary customers are dairy producers and processors who use our tests worldwide for quality assurance of raw milk. opti medical systems we sell opti point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as bicarbonate and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and any locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti cca touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti lion analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. sales and marketing expense was $151.9 million, $115.9 million and $102.0 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, or 16% of sales in each year. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our veterinary diagnostic and pharmaceutical products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and test kits, pharmaceutical products and instrument consumables supplied primarily by the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our veterinary diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our reference laboratory services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force primarily in the u.s. we market our water and food diagnostics products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers and related consumables primarily through distributors and other resellers. 7 table of contents our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler animal health supply, llc, accounted for 8%, 9% and 10% of our 2007, 2006 and 2005 revenue, respectively, and 5% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and 4% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2005. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. our research and development activity is focused primarily on development of new diagnostic instrument platforms and information systems, new immunoassay devices, new diagnostic tests, new animal drugs, enhanced practice information systems, and improvements in the performance, connectivity, usability, and interoperability of our products and services. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $67.3 million, $53.6 million and $40.9 million, or 7.3% of sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and 6.4% of sales in 2005. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: an exclusive license from the regents of the university of california to patents concerning diagnostic products for fiv that expire in 2009; and other patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies that expire beginning in 2014; exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to patents and patent applications relating to the detection of lyme disease that expire beginning in 2019; a patent concerning the colilert -18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our snap combo fiv/felv and canine snap 3dx and 4dx combination tests, that expires in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting the prrs virus that expire beginning in 2012; an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017. to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties, who are in some cases sole source suppliers, to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. vettest chemistry analyzers are manufactured for us by tokyo parts industrial company, ltd. under an agreement that renews annually unless either party notifies the other of its decision not to renew. vettest slides are supplied exclusively by ortho under supply agreements with ortho (the ortho agreements ). we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. in addition, we have committed to minimum annual purchase volumes of certain vettest slides through 2010. under these agreements ortho will also supply the slide consumables used in the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer. the ortho agreements expire on december 31, 2025. 8 table of contents the vetautoread hematology analyzer and related consumables are manufactured for us by qbc diagnostics, inc. ( qbcd ) under a supply agreement that expires on december 31, 2020. the vetlyte electrolyte analyzer is manufactured for us by roche diagnostics corporation under an agreement that requires roche diagnostics to supply analyzers through december 31, 2009 provided that we achieve specified purchase levels, and consumables and spare parts through december 31, 2013. idexx vetlab ua urinalysis strips are manufactured for us by roche diagnostics under agreements that expire on december 31, 2010 but are renewable at our option through december 31, 2020 if we achieve certain purchase levels under those agreements. idexx vetlab ua analyzers are manufactured for us by 77 elektronika kft. under agreements that expire on december 31, 2022, and which require 77 elektronika to supply spare parts for five years following expiration. the idexx coag dx analyzer and associated cartridges are manufactured for us by international technidyne corporation ( itc ) under an agreement that expires on february 6, 2017, but which we may extend until february 6, 2022 if we achieve certain minimum purchase levels under the agreement, and which requires itc to supply consumables and spare parts for five years following expiration. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from a single supplier. these include active ingredients for our pharmaceutical products, certain digital radiography systems, certain other instruments, instrument consumables, and certain components used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products, and instruments, including in lasercyte hematology analyzers. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from small businesses focused on animal health to large pharmaceutical and human medical diagnostics companies. our competitors vary in our different markets. academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. some of our competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic products and food and water testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, quality of the information provided, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. 9 table of contents veterinary laboratory and consulting services . in this market, we compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, and our pricing relative to the value of our services. we compete in most geographic locations in the u.s. with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. veterinary pharmaceuticals . we compete primarily on the basis of the performance characteristics of our products. practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human medical diagnostics point-of-care market . in this market we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, marketing and promotion, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our production animal products and our rapid assay lines of business, are veterinary biological products for infectious diseases that are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. these products also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. veterinary pharmaceuticals . the manufacture and sale of veterinary pharmaceuticals are regulated by the center for veterinary medicine ( cvm ) of the fda. a new animal drug may not be commercially marketed in the u.s. unless it has been approved as safe and effective by cvm. approval may be requested by filing a new animal drug application ( nada ) with cvm containing substantial evidence as to the safety and effectiveness of the drug. data regarding manufacturing methods and controls also are required to be submitted with the nada. manufacturers of animal drugs must also comply with cgmp and good laboratory practices ( glp ). sales of animal drugs in countries outside the u.s. require compliance with the laws of those countries, which may be extensive. 10 table of contents water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , filta-max and simplate for heterotropic plate counts ( hpc ) products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . the sale of dairy testing products in the u.s. is regulated by the fda in conjunction with the aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). before a product can be sold, extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with a protocol that is approved by the fda and the aoac ri. following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by the national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ), an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our dairy antibiotic residue testing products have been approved by the fda and ncims. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application. opti products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, drug, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at december 31, 2007, we had approximately 4,700 full-time and part-time employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our growth rate our ability to maintain our growth rate depends on our successful implementation of various strategies, including: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new products with new features, functions and capabilities, including in-house laboratory analyzers such as catalyst dx and snapshot dx , rapid assay and other specialized diagnostic tests and services, water testing products, production animal diagnostic products, and companion animal veterinary pharmaceuticals, as well as improving and enhancing existing products; developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business areas for us; 11 table of contents increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products, including the interoperability among the idexx vetlab instrument suite, cornerstone practice information management system, idexx vetlab station, idexx-pacs software and idexx reference laboratories; expanding our market by expanding the installed base of our instrumentation through customer acquisition and retention and increasing use of our products by our customers; and strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s. however, we may not be able to successfully implement some or all of these strategies and increase or sustain our rate of growth or profitability. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our vetautoread hematology, vetlyte electrolyte and idexx vetlab ua urinalysis, coagdx blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; the consumables associated with our vettest chemistry analyzers; image capture plates used in our digital radiography system; active ingredients for pharmaceutical products; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products and lasercyte hematology analyzers. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions, or delays or discontinuations in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be required to discontinue sales of one of our veterinary pharmaceutical products for the year ended december 31, 2007, 2% of cag revenue (or $15.4 million) was attributable to sales of our highest-selling pharmaceutical product. this product is sold under the fda regulatory discretion and we believe that the fda would require us to discontinue sales of the product within a short period if and when the fda approves another product to treat the same condition, whether such new product was our product or that of another commercial supplier. in addition, we have a finite inventory of the raw materials used in the manufacture of this product, and these raw materials are no longer commercially available. we believe that our remaining inventory of raw materials will be adequate to satisfy existing market demand until late 2008 or early 2009. we are seeking fda approval of a new product for the same application based on different raw materials. fda approval of this new product would mitigate the commercial risk that we would be required to stop selling our current product due either to fda approval of another manufacturer product or to the full depletion of our inventory of raw materials. while we hope to transition smoothly to our new product, we cannot predict when or if the fda will approve our new product or any product that treats the same condition from another manufacturer. further, there can be no assurances that the new product would achieve the same revenue and profitability as our existing product. 12 table of contents various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda and the epa. most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our pharmaceutical and dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who develop substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in this regard, we expect that revenues and profit margins associated with sales of our snap fiv/felv tests are likely to decline following the expiration in june 2009 of a u.s. patent that we exclusively license that broadly covers products that diagnose feline immunodeficiency virus. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. competitors may develop products that that are superior to our products, and as a result, we may lose existing customers and market share. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large human pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, obtaining regulatory approvals and conducting clinical trials than we do. 13 table of contents changes in testing could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion and production animal diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our production animal products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on december 29, 2006, the drinking water inspectorate in the u.k. published a proposal to discontinue the regulation that requires testing water supplies for cryptosporidium . subsequently, regulatory changes were approved and will become effective january 1, 2009. beginning in 2009, we believe that we may lose a substantial portion of our sales of filta-max products in england and wales, which were $2.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2007. consolidation of veterinary hospitals could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc. and banfield, the pet hospital, both of which are currently customers of idexx. a similar trend is developing in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, our primary competitor in the u.s. market for reference laboratory services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies are likely to use their laboratory services almost exclusively. in addition, because these companies compete with us in the laboratory services business, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services. our inexperience in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market upon acquiring the critical care division of osmetech plc in january 2007, we entered the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market for the first time with the sale of the opti line of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base, and more rapid technological innovation. our inexperience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary medical market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. 14 table of contents risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2007, 40% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. in addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the u.s. and our costs are incurred in u.s. dollars. we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts and natural hedges to mitigate foreign currency exposure. however, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk. we operate subsidiaries in 17 foreign countries and transact business in local currencies. we attempt to hedge the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize some natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. market gains and losses are deferred in prepaid expenses or accruals, as appropriate, until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is settled. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 18 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with their anticipated intercompany inventory purchases for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2007. we enter into currency exchange contracts for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other specific, significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statements of income. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. at december 31, 2007, we had $1.3 million in net unrealized losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $0.6 million in taxes. our currency rate exposure at december 31, 2007 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or our subsidiaries functional currencies. based on our overall currency rate exposure, excluding unrealized losses of $1.9 million at december 31, 2007 and unrealized losses of $2.0 million at december 31, 2006 on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges, a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies at december 31, 2007 would increase or decrease operating income, respectively, by approximately $3.4 million in 2008 and a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar from december 31, 2006 would have increased or decreased operating income, respectively, by approximately $3.1 million in 2007. at december 31, 2007, a 10% weakening or strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would increase or reduce operating income, respectively, by approximately $15.7 million in 2008, compared to $13.9 million in 2007. 49 table of contentsrisk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties discussed herein do not reflect the potential future impact of any mergers, acquisitions or dispositions. in addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this annual report was first filed with the securities and exchange commission and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. from time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. while we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. part i item 1. business we develop, manufacture and distribute products and provide services primarily for the veterinary and the food and water testing markets. we also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. our primary products and services are: point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprising rapid assays and instruments and consumables; laboratory and consulting services used by veterinarians; practice information systems and services and digital radiography systems used by veterinarians; diagnostic and health-monitoring products for production animals; products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; products that test milk for antibiotic residues; and point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human medical diagnostics market. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our acarexx and surpass veterinary pharmaceutical products and a product under development. upon completion of this transaction we restructured the remaining pharmaceutical business and realigned the remaining pharmaceutical product lines to other business units. we have also retained certain drug delivery technologies that we will look to utilize in development agreements with pharmaceutical companies. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2008 included in this annual report on form 10-k. we are a delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. our principal executive offices are located at one idexx drive, westbrook, maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. references herein to we, us, the company, or idexx include our wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. references to our web site are inactive textual references only and the content of our web site should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this form 10-k for any purpose. 3 table of contents we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). in addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the sec may be accessed on the sec web site at www.sec.gov. the public may also read and copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. description of business by segment during 2008, we operated primarily through three business segments: products and services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as the companion animal group ( cag ), water quality products ( water ) and products for production animal health, which we refer to as the production animal segment ( pas ). we also operate two smaller segments that comprise products for dairy quality, which we refer to as dairy, and products for the human medical diagnostic market, which we refer to as opti medical. financial information about the dairy and opti medical operating segments and other activities are combined and presented in an other category because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. in addition, we maintain active research and development programs, some of which may materialize into the development and introduction of new technology, products or services that do not align with one of our existing business or service categories. in such situations, the related financial impacts are shown in the other category. in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business at the end of 2008, we realigned two of our remaining product lines to the rapid assay business, which is part of our cag segment, and realigned the remainder of the business, which comprised one product line and two out-licensing arrangements, to the other category. segment information presented for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 has been restated to conform to our presentation of reportable segments for the year ended december 31, 2008. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2008 included in this annual report on form 10-k for financial information about our segments, including geographic information, and about our product and service categories. companion animal group instruments and consumables we currently market an integrated suite of in-house laboratory analyzers for use in veterinary practices that we refer to as the idexx vetlab suite of analyzers. the idexx vetlab suite includes several instrument systems, as well as associated proprietary consumable products that are described below: blood and urine chemistry . we sell two analyzers, the catalyst dx chemistry analyzer and the vettest chemistry analyzer, that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for assistance in diagnosing physiologic conditions. both instruments use consumables manufactured for idexx by ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc. ( ortho ), a subsidiary of johnson johnson, based on ortho dry slide technology ( dry chemistry slides, vettest slides, catalyst dx slides or slides ). in addition to dry chemistry slides, the catalyst dx analyzer also uses electrolyte consumables manufactured by idexx at opti medical. blood tests commonly run on these analyzers include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, alt (alanine aminotransferase), creatinine, bun (blood urea nitrogen), and total protein. tests are sold individually and in prepackaged panels. both analyzers also run a urine test called urine protein: creatinine ratio, which assists in the detection of early renal disease. the catalyst dx analyzer is our latest generation analyzer, which was launched in the first quarter of 2008. the catalyst dx analyzer provides significantly improved throughput, ease of use and menu, including the ability to run electrolytes, relative to the vettest analyzer. key ease-of-use features include the ability to run whole blood by way of an on-board centrifuge, the ability to run pre-packaged clips in addition to single chemistry slides and an automated metering system. the catalyst dx analyzer also has the ability to run automated dilutions, which is an ease-of-use feature both for certain blood chemistries and the test for urine protein: creatinine ratio. the catalyst dx analyzer allows a veterinarian to run multiple sample types simultaneously; to run different sample types including whole blood, plasma, serum and urine; includes the ability to perform 26 different chemistry and electrolyte parameter tests; and to automatically calculate other parameters and ratios important to blood chemistry analysis. 4 table of contents our vetlyte electrolyte analyzer measures three electrolytes sodium, potassium and chloride to aid in evaluating acid-base and electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. our vetstat electrolyte and blood gas analyzer measures electrolytes, blood gases, glucose and ionized calcium, and calculates other parameters, such as base excess and anion gap. these measurements aid veterinarians in diagnosing various disease states and evaluating fluid therapy choices and measuring respiratory function. the vetstat analyzer runs single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. sales of chemistry reagents for use in our installed base of chemistry analyzers provide the majority of consumables volumes and revenues generated from our installed base of idexx vetlab equipment. hematology . we sell three hematology analyzers: the lasercyte hematology analyzer, which uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (also called a complete blood count ( cbc )); the coag dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders; and the idexx vetautoread hematology analyzer, which also provides a cbc. quantitative immunoassay testing . in the first quarter of 2008, we launched the snapshot dx analyzer, which allows the veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurements of total thyroxine ( t 4 ), cortisol and bile acids, which assist in the evaluation of thyroid, adrenal and liver function. the snapshot dx analyzer is designed to significantly improve ease of use, throughput and menu relative to the previous generation idexx snap reader. in 2009, the snapshot dx analyzer will also read, interpret and record the results of certain idexx rapid assay snap tests, including our feline snap fiv/felv combo test and canine snap cpl . urinalysis . the idexx vetlab ua analyzer provides rapid, semi-quantitative urinalysis and is validated specifically for veterinary use. idexx vetlab station . the idexx vetlab station ( ivls ) connects and integrates the information from all the idexx vetlab equipment and thus provides laboratory information management system capability. we sell the ivls as an integral component of the catalyst dx and lasercyte systems and also as a standalone hardware platform. the ivls includes a user interface to input patient information, connect with a practice management information system, and to send information to run the individual analyzers. ivls also generates one integrated patient report; stores, retrieves and analyzes historical patient diagnostics data, including snap test results; and sends and receives information from practice information management systems, including idexx cornerstone and better choice systems, as well as a wide variety of third-party systems. rapid assays we provide a broad range of single-use, handheld test kits under the snap name that allow quick, accurate and convenient test results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions. these products enable veterinarians to provide improved service to animal owners by delivering test results and a diagnosis at the time of the patient visit, allowing the veterinarian to initiate therapy or prevention, if required. these kits work without the use of instrumentation. our principal single-use tests include canine combination parasite tests called snap 3dx , which tests simultaneously for lyme disease, ehrlichia canis and heartworm, and snap 4dx , which additionally tests for anaplasma phagocytophilum ; a canine heartworm-only test; canine tests for parvovirus and pancreatitis; feline combination tests called the snap fiv antibody/felv antigen combo test, which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) (which is similar to the human aids virus) and feline leukemia virus ( felv ), and snap feline triple, which additionally tests for heartworm; a feline test for felv only; and canine and feline tests for giardia , a parasitic disease. sales of canine parasite tests, including the heartworm only test, are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practice. we maintain certain patents concerning diagnostic products for fiv that expire beginning in june 2009. see part i, patents and licenses. 5 table of contents in addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based test kits, under the petchek name, that are used by larger clinics and laboratories to test multiple samples. petchek tests offer accuracy, ease of use and provides cost advantages to high-volume customers. we currently sell petchek tests for canine heartworm disease, fiv, and felv. veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services we offer commercial veterinary reference laboratory and consulting services to veterinarians in the u.s., canada, europe, australia, japan, and south africa. veterinarians use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in companion and production animals. this menu of tests includes a number of specialized and proprietary tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases in dogs and cats, including heart disease, pancreatitis and certain infectious diseases. additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine and advisory services, including cardiology, radiology, internal medicine and ultrasound consulting. these services permit veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the internet from the veterinarians offices. practice information systems and digital radiography practice information systems and services . we develop, market and sell practice information systems, including hardware and software, that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including patient electronic health records management, scheduling (including boarding and grooming), billing, and inventory management. our principal system is the cornerstone system. we also support several legacy systems installed with our customers, including idexx better choice , idexx vpm and idexx vetlink . additionally, we provide software and hardware support to our practice information system customers, and related supplies and services to veterinary practice information system users in general, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts. digital radiography systems and services . our digital radiography systems capture radiograph images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film. use of digital radiography systems eliminates the need for the film and processor, hazardous chemicals and darkroom required for the production of film images, and provides for image manipulation and enhancement through contrast management. we market and sell three digital radiography systems, the idexx-dr 1417 and the idexx-cr 1417 systems for use in the small animal (e.g., dog and cat) veterinary hospital, and the idexx equiview dr system for use as a portable unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. our digital radiography systems use idexx-pacs and idexx equiview pacs picture archiving and communication system ( pacs ) software for the viewing, manipulation, management, storage and retrieval of the digital images generated by the digital capture plate. the pacs software also permits images from our digital radiography systems to be integrated into patients medical records in the cornerstone system, as well as transferred to other practice information management systems. water we offer a range of products used in the detection of various microbiological analytes in water. our colilert , colilert -18 and colisure tests simultaneously detect total coliforms and e. coli in water. these organisms are broadly used as indicators of microbial contamination in water. these products utilize indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) standards. the tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from private wells. 6 table of contents our enterolert product detects enterococci in drinking and recreational waters. our quanti-tray products, when used in conjunction with our colilert , colilert -18, colisure or enterolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather than a presence/absence indication. the colilert , colilert -18, colisure and quanti-tray products have been approved by the epa and by regulatory agencies in certain other countries. our filta-max and filta-max xpress products are used in the detection of cryptosporidium in water. cryptosporidium is a parasite that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. previously, testing of water supplies for cryptosporidium was mandated by regulation only in england and wales. effective january 1, 2009, testing of water supplies for cryptosporidium is no longer required by regulation in england or wales. while our customers in these countries may voluntarily continue to test for cryptosporidium after that date, we expect that beginning in 2009 we will lose sales of filta-max products in england and wales to customers who have tested solely based on regulatory requirements. our sales of filta-max products in england and wales were $2.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. in september 2007, we commenced distribution of certain water testing kits manufactured by invitrogen corporation ( invitrogen ). the invitrogen kits complement our cryptosporidium and giardia testing products. production animal segment we sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation that are used to detect a wide range of diseases and to monitor health status in production animals. our production animal products are purchased primarily by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers. our largest product is a post-mortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse or mad cow disease ). the european commission recently approved a proposal to revise the monitoring regime for bse in cattle, which increased the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bse from 30 months to 48 months. it has been estimated that revisions will reduce the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. the revision became effective january 1, 2009 and as a result we believe that we will lose a portion of our sales of our post-mortem test for bse. other dairy our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is the snap beta-lactam test. our primary customers are dairy producers and processors worldwide who use our tests for quality assurance of raw milk. opti medical systems we sell opti point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. these analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas and any locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. the opti cca and opti touch electrolyte and blood gas analyzers run single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes; the opti r analyzer runs reusable cassettes in various analyte configurations; and the opti lion stat electrolyte analyzer runs single-use electrolyte cassettes. other we maintain active research and development programs, some of which may materialize into the development and introduction of new technology, products or services that do not align with one of our existing business or service categories. in such situations, the related financial impacts are shown in the other category. in connection with the restructuring of our pharmaceutical business at the end of 2008, we realigned one product line and two out-licensing arrangements from the pharmaceutical business to the other category. the financial impacts of the product line and out-licensing arrangements have been shown in the other segment for 2008. the segment information for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2007 has been restated to conform to our presentation of reportable segments for the year ended december 31, 2008. 7 table of contents marketing and distribution we market, sell and service our products worldwide through our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. we maintain sales offices outside the u.s. in australia, canada, china, france, germany, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. sales and marketing expense was $170.0 million, $151.9 million and $115.9 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, or 16.6% of sales in 2008, 16.5% of sales in 2007, and 15.7% of sales in 2006. generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. we market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the u.s., with most instruments sold directly by idexx sales personnel, and rapid assay test kits and instrument consumables supplied primarily by the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. we sell our reference laboratory services worldwide through our direct sales force. we market our software and digital radiography products through our direct sales force primarily in the u.s. we market our water and food diagnostics products primarily through our direct sales force in the u.s. and canada. outside the u.s. and canada, we market these products through selected independent distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. we sell our opti electrolyte and blood gas analyzers both directly and through independent human medical product distributors in the u.s. and sell most of the related consumables through the distribution channel. outside the u.s., we sell our opti products primarily through distributors and other resellers. our largest customers are our u.s. distributors of our products in the cag segment. one of our cag distributors, butler animal health supply, llc, accounted for 8% of our 2008 and 2007 revenue, 9% of our 2006 revenue, and 5% of our net accounts receivable at december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. we maintain active research and development programs in each of our business areas. our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and consulting costs, were $70.7 million, $67.3 million and $53.6 million, or 6.9% of sales in 2008 and 7.3% of sales in 2007 and 2006. patents and licenses we actively seek to obtain patent protection in the u.s. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. we also license patents and technologies from third parties. important patents and licenses include: an exclusive license from the regents of the university of california to patents concerning diagnostic products for fiv that expire in june 2009; and other patents covering various reagents, kits and/or immunoassays for detecting fiv antibodies that expire beginning in 2014; exclusive licenses from tulane university and the university of texas to patents and patent applications relating to the detection of lyme disease that expire beginning in 2019; a patent concerning the colilert -18 product that expires in 2014; a patent concerning the quanti-tray product that expires in 2014; a patent that relates to certain methods and kits for simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, which covers certain of our snap products, including our canine and feline combination tests, that expires in 2014; an exclusive license from boehringer ingelheim to certain patents covering reagents and methods for detecting the prrs virus that expire beginning in 2012; and an exclusive license from cornell university to patents covering methods for detecting bvdv that expire beginning in 2017. 8 table of contents to the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. production and supply many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties and we rely on third parties, who are in some cases sole source suppliers, to supply us with certain important components, raw materials and consumables used in or with our products. significant products supplied by third parties include vettest chemistry analyzers and consumables, vetautoread hematology analyzers and consumables, vetlyte electrolyte analyzers and consumables, coag dx analyzers and consumables, and catalyst dx consumables (other than electrolyte consumables). vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides are supplied by ortho under supply agreements that expire in 2025 (the ortho agreements ). we are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides from ortho to the extent ortho is able to supply those requirements. in addition, we have committed to minimum annual purchase volumes of certain vettest slides and catalyst dx chemistry slides through 2010. other analyzers and consumables are purchased under supply agreements with terms ranging from 1 year to 14 years, which in some cases may be extended at our option. we have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. we purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from a single supplier. these products include certain digital radiography systems and certain components used in our snap rapid assay devices, production animal testing kits, water testing products, and blood analyzers, including our lasercyte hematology analyzers. we have in the past been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from single source suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. we do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales. competition we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which could affect the marketability of our products and services. our competitive position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products, integrate our products, develop and maintain effective sales channels, attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and implement production and marketing plans, obtain or license patent rights, and obtain adequate capital resources. we compete with many companies ranging from small businesses focused on animal health to large human medical diagnostics companies. our competitors vary in our different markets. academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research activities and may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. some of our competitors have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. 9 table of contents competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below: veterinary diagnostic products and food and water testing products . we compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, quality of the information provided, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including unique tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. veterinary laboratory and consulting services . in this market, we compete primarily on the basis of quality, consistency of service levels, technology, and our pricing relative to the value of our services. we compete in most geographic locations in north america with antech diagnostics, a unit of vca antech, inc. practice information management and digital radiography systems . we compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. electrolyte and blood gas analyzers for the human medical diagnostics point-of-care market . in this market we compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as radiometer a/s, siemens medical solutions diagnostics, instrumentation laboratory, abbott diagnostics, and roche diagnostics. we compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. government regulation many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, manufacturing, marketing and promotion, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, and product disposal. the following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses. veterinary diagnostic products . diagnostic tests for animal health infectious diseases, including most of our production animal products and our rapid assay products, are regulated in the u.s. by the center for veterinary biologics within the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) animal and plant health inspection service ( aphis ). these products must be approved by aphis before they may be sold in the u.s. the aphis regulatory approval process involves the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation. following regulatory approval to market a product, aphis requires that each lot of product be submitted for review before release to customers. in addition, aphis requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. a number of foreign governments accept aphis approval as part of their separate regulatory approvals. however, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in japan, germany, the netherlands and many other countries. we also are required to have a facility license from aphis to manufacture usda-licensed products. we have obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in westbrook, maine and our distribution center in memphis, tennessee. our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) under the food, drug and cosmetics act (the fdc act ). while the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the fda and does not subject us to the fda current good manufacturing practices regulations ( cgmp ), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded under the fdc act. these instrument systems also are subject to the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all european union ( eu ) member countries and require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain european conformity ( ce ) marking for their products. 10 table of contents water testing products . our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. however, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the u.s. that is required by the epa, the test must first be approved by the epa. the epa approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an epa-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the epa and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the federal register before final approval. our colilert , colilert -18, colisure , quanti-tray , filta-max and simplate for heterotropic plate counts ( hpc ) products have been approved by the epa. the sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world. dairy testing products . dairy products used in national conference on interstate milk shipments ( ncims ) milk-monitoring programs, are regulated by the fda. before products requiring fda approval can be sold in the u.s., extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with an fda approved protocol administered by aoac research institute ( aoac ri ). following approval of a product by the fda, the product must also be approved by ncims, an oversight body that includes state, federal and industry representatives. our snap beta-lactam dairy antibiotic residue testing product has been approved by the fda and ncims. while some foreign countries accept aoac ri approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes. human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers . our opti instrument systems are classified as class ii medical devices, and their design, manufacture and marketing are regulated by the fda. accordingly, we must comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our opti products. the fda quality system regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the fda. new opti products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k) application. opti products are also subject to the european medical device directives and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold. any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. these may involve food, drug, medical device and water-quality regulations of the fda, the epa and the usda, as well as state, local and foreign governments. see part i, item 1a. risk factors. employees at december 31, 2008, we had approximately 4,700 full-time and part-time employees. item 1a. risk factors our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. our failure to successfully execute certain strategies could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability the companion animal health care industry is very competitive and we anticipate increased competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. our ability to maintain or enhance our historical growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new in-house laboratory analyzers such as catalyst dx and snapshot dx that drive sales of idexx vetlab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and create a recurring revenue stream from consumable products; developing and introducing new proprietary rapid assay and other diagnostic tests and services that effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; achieving the benefits of economies of scale in our worldwide reference laboratory business; increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products; growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the u.s. and in geographies outside of the u.s.; and developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us. 11 table of contents if we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. a weak economy could result in reduced demand for our products and services a substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of pet visits to veterinary hospitals and practices of veterinarians with respect to diagnostic testing. economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to treat certain pet health conditions, approve certain diagnostic tests, or continue to own a pet. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests. a decline in pet visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests could result in a decrease in diagnostic testing, and therefore in our sales of diagnostic products and services. disruption in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business as widely reported, financial markets in the u.s., europe and asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. these economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. the current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders for our products and services. the inability of pet owners to obtain consumer credit could lead to a decline in pet visits to the veterinarian, which could result in a decrease in diagnostic testing. likewise, a decrease in diagnostic testing could negatively impact the financial condition of the veterinary practices that are our customers, which may inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided. in addition, although current economic conditions have not impacted our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, further deterioration in financial markets could adversely affect our access to capital. we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the u.s. and other countries. strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar has a negative effect on our business strengthening of the rate of exchange for the u.s. dollar against the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the japanese yen and the australian dollar adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the margins on products manufactured in the u.s. and exported to international markets. in 2008, approximately 24% of idexx sales were a result of exports from the u.s. our dependence on a limited number of suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or reduce our profitability we currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. these products include our vetautoread hematology, vetlyte electrolyte, idexx vetlab ua urinalysis, vettest chemistry, and coag dx blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our snap rapid assay devices, water testing products and lasercyte hematology analyzers. if we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions, delays or discontinuations in product shipments, which could result in our inability to supply the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 table of contents our biologic products are complex and difficult to manufacture, which could negatively affect our ability to supply the market many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. various government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products in the u.s., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the usda, the fda and the epa. most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the usda prior to sale in the u.s. our water testing products must be approved by the epa before they can be used by customers in the u.s. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the epa. our dairy testing products require approval by the fda. the manufacture and sale of our opti line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the fda and require approval by the fda before they may be sold commercially in the u.s. the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the u.s. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies we rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. if we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. we cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. in this regard, we expect that revenues and profit margins associated with sales of our snap fiv/felv tests are likely to decline following the expiration in june 2009 of a u.s. patent that we exclusively license that broadly covers products that diagnose feline immunodeficiency virus. in the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. we cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. if we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 table of contents distributor purchasing patterns could negatively affect our operating results we sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the u.s., through distributors. distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. in addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. increased competition and technological advances by our competitors could negatively affect our operating results we face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. we expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, and as a result, we may lose existing customers and market share. some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. changes in testing patterns could negatively affect our operating results the market for our companion and production animal diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors. the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. our production animal products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. in addition, changes in government regulations could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our production animal, dairy and water products. declines in testing for any of the reasons described could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. effective january 1, 2009, testing of water supplies for cryptosporidium is no longer required by regulation in england or wales. while our customers in these countries may voluntarily continue to test for cryptosporidium after that date, we expect that beginning in 2009 we will lose sales of filta-max products in england and wales to customers who have tested solely based on regulatory requirements. our sales of filta-max products in england and wales were $2.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. effective january 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for bse in the european union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which has been estimated to reduce the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. as a result we believe that we are likely to lose a portion of our sales of our post-mortem test for bse. consolidation of veterinary hospitals could negatively affect our business an increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the u.s. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. major corporate hospital owners in the u.s. include vca antech, inc., national veterinary associates, and banfield, the pet hospital, each of which is currently a customer of idexx. a similar trend exists in the u.k. and may in the future also develop in other countries. corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. in addition, certain corporate owners, most notably vca antech, our primary competitor in the u.s. market for reference laboratory services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. any hospitals acquired by these companies are likely to use their laboratory services almost exclusively. in addition, because these companies compete with us in the laboratory services business, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. 14 table of contents our inexperience in the human point-of-care market could inhibit our success in this market upon acquiring the critical care division of osmetech plc in january 2007, we entered the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market for the first time with the sale of the opti line of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base, and more rapid technological innovation. our inexperience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary medical market. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. risks associated with doing business internationally could negatively affect our operating results for the year ended december 31, 2008, 40% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the u.s. due to competitive, market or other factors. as a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. in addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the u.s. and our costs are incurred in u.s. dollars. we utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts and natural hedges to mitigate foreign currency exposure. however, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. additionally, a strengthening u.s. dollar could negatively impact the ability of customers outside the u.s. to pay for purchases denominated in u.s. dollars. the loss of our president, chief executive officer and chairman could adversely affect our business we rely on the management and leadership of jonathan w. ayers, our president, chief executive officer and chairman. we do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for mr. ayers. the loss of mr. ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us the market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 table of contents if our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. future operating results could be negatively affected by the resolution of various uncertain tax positions and by potential changes to tax incentives in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. we periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. if we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar and our primary manufacturing operations are in the u.s., but we distribute our products worldwide both through direct export and through our subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency transaction risk consists of intercompany sales of product and we attempt to mitigate this risk through our hedging program described below. our subsidiaries in 17 foreign countries use the local currency as their functional currency. for the year ended december 31, 2008, 40% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the u.s. the primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions. we also utilize some natural hedges to mitigate our transaction and commitment exposures. corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. we enter into exchange contracts with large multinational financial institutions and we do not hold or engage in transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk management. our accounting policies for these contracts are based on our designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. market gains and losses are deferred in other current assets or accruals, as appropriate, until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is settled. we primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with durations of less than 18 months. our subsidiaries enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with their anticipated intercompany inventory purchases for the next year. from time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations associated with specific, significant transactions. we identify foreign currency exchange risk by regularly monitoring our transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we attempt to mitigate currency risk by hedging the majority of our cash flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. currency exposure on large purchases of foreign currency denominated products are evaluated in our hedging program and used as natural hedges to offset hedge requirements. our hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods and there were no material changes in our market risk exposure during the year ended december 31, 2008. we enter into forward currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for amounts that are less than the full value of forecasted intercompany sales and for amounts that are equivalent to, or less than, other specific, significant transactions, thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been recorded through the statement of operations. our hedging strategy related to intercompany inventory purchases provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by the end of the preceding year. quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the following year. accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. we enter into hedge agreements where we believe we have meaningful exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. the notional amount of foreign currency contracts to hedge forecasted intercompany sales outstanding at december 31, 2008 and 2007 was $97.7 million and $122.1 million, respectively. at december 31, 2008, we had $6.8 million in net unrealized gains on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income, which is net of $3.1 million in taxes. our foreign currency exchange risk at december 31, 2008 consisted of local currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances denominated in a currency other than the company or our subsidiaries functional currencies. a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies, including the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce operating income by approximately $7.2 million in 2009. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies would have the exact opposite impact of a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies. we are subject to interest rate risk to the extent that the libor increases or the cdor increases. borrowings under our credit facility bear interest in the range from 0.375% to 0.875% above the libor or the cdor, dependent on our consolidated leverage ratio, and are outstanding from one to six months. borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2008 were $150.6 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 2.3%. all borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2008 matured one month from the date of the borrowing. an increase in the libor or the cdor of 1% would increase interest expense by approximately $1.5 million. 50 table of contents