quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. to minimize this risk in the future, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. we intend to limit the percentage invested in short-term investments to no more than fifty percent of the combined fair value of cash equivalents and short-term investments. we also intend to limit the average duration on our short-term investments to less than three years. as of december 31, 2002 all short-term investments were invested in the vanguard short-term bond index fund admiral shares (the fund ). the target index, for the fund, the lehman 1-5 year government/credit bond index (the index ), is comprised of approximately 1,500 u.s. treasury and agency securities and investment-grade corporate bonds with maturities between 1 and 5 years. as of december 31, 2002 the fund had investments in 363 issues with an average quality of aa1/aa2, an average duration of 2.4 years and an average yield, net of expenses, of 2.43%. as of december 31, 2002, the cost, unrealized gain and market value of our short-term investments was $43,022,000, $774,000 and $43,796,000, respectively.risk factors 5 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain subscribers are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant subscriber growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers. competitors include multichannel video programming distributors ("mvpds") with free tv everywhere and other on demand content, internet movie and tv content providers, including both those that provide legal and illegal (or pirated) entertainment video content, dvd rental outlets and kiosk services and entertainment video retail stores. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new or adjust existing features or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies and evolving business models for delivery of entertainment video continue to develop at a fast pace. the growth of internet-connected devices, including tvs, computers and mobile devices has increased the consumer acceptance of internet delivery of entertainment video. through these new and existing distribution channels, consumers are afforded various means for consuming entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these differing means of entertainment video delivery include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. several competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment, and marketing. new entrants may enter the market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video and other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the increasingly long-term and fixed cost nature of our content acquisition licenses may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operation. in connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year licenses with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to subscriber usage or the size of our subscriber base ( fixed cost ) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipt. such contractual commitments are included in the contractual obligations section of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content licenses, if subscriber acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for streaming licenses, especially programming that initially airs in the applicable territory on our service ( original programming ) or that is considered output content, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. to the extent subscriber and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content licensing commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain licenses. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our streaming licenses may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our 5 table of contents business and the market segments in which we operate. as we expand internationally, we must license content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. if we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. changes in consumer viewing habits, including more widespread usage of tv everywhere or other similar on demand methods of entertainment video consumption could adversely affect our business. the manner in which consumers view entertainment video is changing rapidly. digital cable, wireless and internet content providers are continuing to improve technologies, content offerings, user interface, and business models that allow consumers to access on demand entertainment with interactive capabilities including start, stop and rewind. the devices through which entertainment video can be consumed are also changing rapidly. today, content from mvpds may be viewed on laptops and content from internet content providers may be viewed on tvs. although we provide our own internet-based delivery of content allowing our subscribers to stream certain tv shows and movies to their internet-connected televisions and other devices, if other providers of entertainment video address the changes in consumer viewing habits in a manner that is better able to meet content distributor and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are currently engaged in an effort to expand our operations internationally, scale our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both subscribers and features related to our service, as well as continue to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as we expand internationally, we are managing our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing relatively new third-party internet-based or cloud computing services. we have also chosen to separate the technology that operates our dvd-by-mail service from that which runs our streaming operations. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including maintaining our dvd operations, and improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations, our business may be adversely affected. if the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video has grown significantly. much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our subscribers to stream tv shows and movies on their tvs, computers and mobile devices. as we face more competition in our market segment, our rate of growth relative to overall growth in the segment may decline. further, a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate. while we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. we believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting and retaining subscribers who may have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to build a strong brand we believe we must continue to offer content and service features that our subscribers value and enjoy. we also believe that these must be coupled with effective consumer communications, such as marketing, customer service and public relations. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. such a result, coupled with the increasingly long-term and fixed cost nature of our content acquisition licenses, may adversely affect our operating results. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our title selection, pricing, delivery speed and service interruptions. furthermore, third-party devices that enable instant streaming of tv shows and movies from netflix may not meet consumer expectations. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. in 2011, we made a series of announcements regarding our business, including the separation of our dvd-by-mail and streaming plans with a corresponding price change for some of our customers, the rebranding of our dvd-by-mail service, and the subsequent retraction of our plans to rebrand our dvd-by-mail service. consumers reacted negatively to these announcements, adversely impacting our brand and resulting in higher than expected customer cancellations, which negatively affected our operating results. while we have seen significant improvements to our brand since the events of 2011, we nonetheless believe that it will continue to take time to repair our brand to the levels we enjoyed prior to the events of 2011. 6 table of contents with respect to our expansion into international markets, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets would be adversely impacted. changes in our subscriber acquisition sources could adversely affect our marketing expenses and subscriber levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our affiliate program. we also engage our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including tv and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program, including through social media sites such as facebook and twitter, to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our marketing costs. laws and regulations impose restrictions on or otherwise prohibit the use of certain acquisition channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. if we become subject to liability for content that we distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in member reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us, and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios and other content providers refuse to license streaming content to us upon acceptable terms, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly depends on studios and other content providers licensing us content specifically for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios and other content providers change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to license us content, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, streaming content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such, we are completely dependent on the various content providers to license us content in order to access and stream content. many of the licenses provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. in addition, the studios and other content providers have great flexibility in licensing streaming content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros. and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content on a transactional basis. conversely, content providers may license the same content to multiple subscription-based services and may do so on different terms and conditions. as such, netflix and its competitors may offer consumers many of the same content titles but license these at different rates. as competition increases, we may see the cost for programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. 7 table of contents if we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, including on an exclusive basis in some cases, our ability to stream tv shows and movies to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. we rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their pcs, macs and other internet-connected devices, including blu-ray players and tvs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. if subscriptions to our domestic dvd segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected the number of subscriptions to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. in addition, we believe that dvd will be a valuable consumer proposition and studio profit center for the next several years, even as dvd sales decline. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. because we are primarily focused on building a global streaming service, the resources allocated to maintaining dvd operations and the level of management focus on our dvd business are limited. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, subscribers' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail subscriber cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. this is commonly referred to as the first sale doctrine. while the vast majority of our dvd content acquisitions are direct from content providers, the first sale doctrine provides us with an option to acquire content from other third parties should the content providers refuse to deal with us on acceptable terms. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain dvd content and then rent it could be adversely affected. increased availability of new releases to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on dvd, and/or the delayed availability of such dvds through our service, could adversely affect our business. over the past several years, we have seen content providers adjust and experiment with the various distribution channels and content release timing. further, our licensing agreements with several studios require that we do not rent new release dvds until some period of time after such dvds are first made available for retail sale. these shifting distribution channels, their associated timing and/or the delayed availability of such dvds through our service may negatively impact subscribers' perception of value in our service, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, if we are unable to negotiate favorable terms to acquire dvds, our contribution profits may be adversely affected. any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill 8 table of contents dvd selections. from time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions and periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. any attempt by hackers to disrupt our service or otherwise access our systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party internet-based or cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix subscribers over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, "cloud" computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. in addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ("aws") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if we experience difficulties with the operation and implementation of open connect, our single-purpose netflix content delivery network ( cdn ), our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted in addition to general-purpose commercial cdns, we have enabled internet service providers ("isps") to obtain our streaming content from open connect, a single-purpose netflix content delivery network that we have established. given our size and growth, we believe it makes economic sense to have our own specialized cdn. we will continue to work with our commercial cdn partners for the next few years, but eventually we expect the vast majority of our streaming bits will be served by open connect. open connect will provide the netflix bits at no cost to the locations the isp desires, or isps can choose to get the netflix bits at common internet exchanges. to the extent isps do not interconnect with open connect or if we experience difficulties in operating the open connect cdn service, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our subscribers could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. failure to implement open connect could require us to engage third-party solutions to deliver our content to isps, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our operating results. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase subscriber engagement with our service, our business may suffer. our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase subscriber engagement with our service. 9 table of contents we are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our tv show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements or other, third party recommendation or merchandising technology or interfaces may become more popular with or useful to our subscribers. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our subscribers. such failures could lead to the following: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; and our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream tv shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of tv shows and movies to our subscribers in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of dvds among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, if our technology or that of third-parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. changes in u.s. postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and subscriber satisfaction. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on january 23, 2013 to 46 cents. it is expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years, which would result in increased shipping costs. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our contribution margin could be adversely affected. for example, the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia recently instructed the postal regulatory commission (prc) to remedy discrimination by the postal service in the processing of dvds by mail, or to explain adequately why such discrimination is reasonable. while we do not anticipate any material impact to our operations arising from this case, if the prc institutes a remedy that results in an increase in postage rates or changes the manner in which our dvd shipments are processed, our contribution margin could be adversely affected. if the u.s. postal service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our results of operations could be adversely affected. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. for example, in late 2010, the federal communications commission adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. the rules are currently subject to legal challenge. to the extent that these rules are interpreted to enable network operators to engage in discriminatory practices or are overturned by legal challenge, our business could be adversely impacted. as we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. within 10 table of contents such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our subscriber acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. for example, in late 2010, comcast informed level 3 communications that it would require level 3 to pay for the ability to access comcast's network. given that much of the traffic being requested by comcast customers is netflix streaming content stored with level 3, many commentators have looked to this situation as an example of comcast either discriminating against netflix traffic or trying to increase netflix's operating costs. furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, companies like comcast, time warner cable and cablevision have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. for example, comcast exempted certain of its own internet video traffic (e.g., streampix videos to the xbox 360) from a bandwidth cap that applies to all unaffiliated internet video traffic (e.g., netflix videos to the xbox 360).while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. in international markets, especially in latin america, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our subscribers, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. as our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and, in many cases, mailing addresses. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers' data. if, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers' data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit and debit cards (together, payment cards ) by them. under current payment card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders' signatures, we are liable for fraudulent payment card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent payment cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory and streaming. typically, these payment cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from 11 table of contents these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees, changes to operating rules or the acceptance of new types of payment methods could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using payment cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result of a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we accept payment methods other than payment cards. as our service continues to evolve and expand internationally, we will likely continue to explore accepting various forms of payment, which may have higher fees and costs than our currently accepted payment methods. if more consumers utilize higher cost payment methods, our payment costs could increase and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. 12 table of contents the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. our executive offices and certain data centers are located in the san francisco bay area. we have dvd shipping centers located throughout the u.s., including earthquake and hurricane-sensitive areas. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our dvd fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data centers. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. we offer our streaming plan in canada, latin america and certain countries in europe (the u.k., ireland, finland, denmark, sweden, and norway). operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s. our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the united states, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, such as i.s.s., p.i.s., c.o.f.i.n.s. and c.i.d.e. in brazil, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; 13 table of contents differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage and/or penetration of internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have issued debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2012, we had $200 million in 8.50% senior notes and $200 million in zero coupon senior convertible notes outstanding. we also anticipate closing an offering of $500 million in 5.375% senior notes, a portion of the proceeds of which will be used to redeem our 8.5% senior notes. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 9,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and 14 table of contents prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. on november 2, 2012, we implemented a stockholder rights plan, also called a poison pill, which may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control of us by, among other things, making it uneconomical for a third-party to acquire us on a hostile basis. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. a small number of our stockholders could significantly influence our business. as of december 31, 2012, we believe that our top five stockholders control approximately 41% of our common stock. these few significant stockholders, either individually or acting together, may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the company or our assets. this concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other stockholders to effect substantial changes in the company, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a change in control of the company, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, involvement of certain activist stockholders may impact our ability to recruit and retain talent or otherwise distract management. further, the interests of these few stockholders may not be in the best interests of all stockholders. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid subscriber additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2012, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of the securities we hold that are classified as short-term investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) due within one year $ 94,739 due after one year and through 5 years 312,096 due after 5 years and through 10 years 6,679 due after 10 years 44,273 total $ 457,787 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2012. the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the 34 table of contents analysis is shown as of december 31, 2012: fair value december 31, 2012 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $475,881 $ 471,961 $ 468,041 $ 460,201 $ 456,281 $ 452,361risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant member growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with a valuable and quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain members. competitors include multichannel video programming distributors providing free on demand content through authenticated internet applications, internet-based movie and tv content providers, including both those that provide legal and illegal (or pirated) entertainment video content, dvd rental outlets and kiosk services and entertainment video retail stores. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new or adjust existing features or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new members both to replace members who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current member base. if too many of our members cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new members in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing members and attracting new members, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies and evolving business models for delivery of entertainment video continue to develop at a fast pace. the growth of internet-connected devices, including tvs, computers and mobile devices has increased the consumer acceptance of internet delivery of entertainment video. through these new and existing distribution channels, consumers are afforded various means for consuming entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these differing means of entertainment video delivery include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. several competitors have longer operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment, and marketing. new entrants may enter the market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video and other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operation. in connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year licenses with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to member usage or the size of our member base ( fixed cost ) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments are included in the contractual obligations section of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content licenses, if member acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for streaming licenses, especially programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service ( original programming ) or that is considered output content, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. to the extent member and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content licensing commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain licenses. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our 3 table of contents business and the market segments in which we operate. as we expand internationally, we must license content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. if we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as we expand internationally, we are managing our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party internet-based or cloud computing services. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations, our business may be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve member satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. we believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to build a strong brand we believe we must continue to offer content and service features that our members value and enjoy. we also believe that these must be coupled with effective consumer communications, such as marketing, customer service and public relations. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. such a result, coupled with the increasingly long-term and fixed cost nature of our content acquisition licenses, may adversely affect our operating results. with respect to our expansion into international markets, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets may be adversely impacted. changes in our member acquisition sources could adversely affect our marketing expenses and member levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as facebook and twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. if companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our website such as member reviews. as we expand our original programming, we will become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we will also take on risks associated with the production, such as completion and key talent risk. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, or if we become liable for content we produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are indemnified to cover claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. 4 table of contents if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch instantly depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our member acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with performing rights organizations and collection societies ( pros ) that hold certain rights to music interests when "publicly performed" or communicated to the public in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain pros and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with pros, or result in music publishers represented by certain pros to unilaterally withdraw rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. we rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected devices, including tvs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm these systems. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. from time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected members with a credit during periods of extended outage. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions and periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. any attempt by hackers to disrupt our service or otherwise access our systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service 5 table of contents or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of members and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party internet-based or cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, "cloud" computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ("aws") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if we experience difficulties with the operation and implementation of open connect, our single-purpose netflix content delivery network ( cdn ), our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we have built and deployed a single-purpose netflix content delivery network that we call open connect. given our size and growth, we believe it makes economic sense to have our own specialized cdn. we will continue to work with commercial cdn partners, but we believe that the vast majority of our streaming bits will ultimately be served by open connect. to the extent internet service providers ("isps") do not interconnect with open connect or if we experience difficulties in operating the open connect cdn service, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. failure to implement open connect could require us to engage third-party solutions to deliver our content to isps, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our operating results. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase member engagement with our service, our business may suffer. our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our members. we also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase member engagement with our service. we are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our tv show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our members. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements or other, third-party recommendation or merchandising technology or interfaces may become more popular with or useful to our members. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our members. such failures could lead to the following: our member satisfaction may decrease, members may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected; and our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected. 6 table of contents we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream tv shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our members. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of tv shows and movies to our members in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of dvds among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired. in addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired. also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. for example, in late 2010, the federal communications commission (fcc) adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. recently, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia struck down the fcc's net neutrality rules and it is currently uncertain how the fcc will respond to this decision. to the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. as we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our member acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. for example, comcast exempted certain of its own internet video traffic (e.g., streampix videos to the xbox 360) from a bandwidth cap that applies to all unaffiliated internet video traffic (e.g., netflix videos to the xbox 360). while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. in international markets, especially in latin america, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our member data and our disclosure of member data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use 7 table of contents collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. as our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our member data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. for these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data occur, our business could be adversely affected. increases in payment processing fees, changes to operating rules, the acceptance of new types of payment methods or payment fraud could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our members pay for our membership services predominately using credit and debit cards (together, "payment cards"). our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result of a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we accept payment methods other than payment cards. as our service continues to evolve and expand internationally, we will likely continue to explore accepting various forms of payment, which may have higher fees and costs than our currently accepted payment methods. if more consumers utilize higher cost payment methods, our payment costs could increase and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, we do not obtain signatures from members in connection with their use of payment methods. to the extent we do not obtain members' signatures, we may be liable for fraudulent payment transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent payment methods are used to obtain service. while we do have certain safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent payment transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent payment transactions would harm our business and results of operations. if the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video has grown significantly. much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our members to stream tv shows and movies on their tvs, computers and mobile devices. as we face more competition in our market segment, our rate of growth relative to overall growth in the segment may decline. further, a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate. while we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these 8 table of contents applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; 9 table of contents unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the united states, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, such as iss, pis, cofins and cide in brazil, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage and/or penetration of internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have issued debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2013, we had $500 million in 5.375% senior notes. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. we plan to obtain approximately $400 million in long term debt in the first quarter of 2014 and it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if memberships to our domestic dvd segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. changes in u.s. postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our members. increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit. if the u.s. postal service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. 11 table of contents as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid member additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes, the corresponding changes in the market values of our investments and foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2013 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of the securities we hold that are classified as short-term investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) due within one year $ 144,267 due after one year and through 5 years 408,048 due after 5 years and through 10 years 1,703 due after 10 years 41,422 total $ 595,440 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2013 . the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. 31 table of contents the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2013 : fair value december 31, 2013 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $ 608,368 $ 604,059 $ 599,749 $ 591,131 $ 586,821 $ 582,512 based on investment positions as of december 31, 2013, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in an $8.6 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. as of december 31, 2012, a similar 100 basis point increase in the yield curve would have resulted in a $1.5 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if the company sold the investments prior to maturity. foreign currency risk we have foreign currency risk related to our revenues and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our revenue and net income as expressed in u.s. dollars. we also have foreign currency risk related to foreign currency transactions and monetary assets and liabilities, including intercompany balances denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on these foreign currency transactions and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities. to date, the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate changes on our revenues and net income have not been material. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy.risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant member growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain members. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd rental outlets. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new members both to replace members who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current member base. if growth rates slow faster than expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per member) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing members and attracting new members, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to member usage or the size of our member base ( fixed cost ) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments are included in the contractual obligations section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 6, commitments and contingencies in item 8 . given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if member acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as programming that is initially available in the 3 table of contents applicable territory on our service ( original programming ), will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. to the extent member and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. as we expand internationally, we must license content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. if we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as we expand internationally, we are managing our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations, our business may be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain or, in new markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. as we expand into new markets, we will also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these new markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and member levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as facebook and twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. if companies that promote our service decide that we negatively impact their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to such marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we develop, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our website such as member reviews. as we expand our original programming, we will become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we will also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. to 4 table of contents the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on our service, or if we become liable for content we develop, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our member acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with performing rights organizations and collection societies ( pros ) that hold certain rights to music interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain pros and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with pros, or result in music publishers represented by certain pros unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected devices, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our device partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including both member and corporate information, and could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. 5 table of contents service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber attacks such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data, disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of members and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, "cloud" computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ("aws") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ("isps") do not interconnect with our cdn or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. 6 table of contents changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. the failure to adopt laws protecting strong net neutrality could also increase the cost of doing business. for example, in late 2010, the federal communications commission ("fcc") adopted net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia subsequently struck down the fcc's net neutrality rules and it is currently uncertain how the fcc will respond to this decision. to the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. as we expand internationally, government regulations concerning the internet, in particular net neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our member acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. for example, comcast exempted certain of its own internet video traffic (e.g., streampix videos to the xbox 360) from a bandwidth cap that applies to all unaffiliated internet video traffic (e.g., netflix videos to the xbox 360). while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. in some international markets, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our member data and disclosure of member data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to collect and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. as our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our member data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. for these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data occur, our business could be adversely affected. 7 table of contents we are subject to payment processing risk our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift subscriptions and direct debit. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. 8 table of contents we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the united states, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, such as iss, pis, cofins and cide in brazil, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage and/or penetration of internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have debt outstanding and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2014, we had $500 million in 5.375% senior notes and $400 million in 5.75% senior notes. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: 9 table of contents requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. we intend to raise at least $1 billion, pending market conditions, of additional long-term debt in the first quarter of 2015 and it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if memberships to our domestic dvd segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. changes in u.s. postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our members. increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit. if the u.s. postal service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has 10 table of contents held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. financial forecasting may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and number of total and paid member additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our investments, debt and foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2014 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset backed securities. 30 table of contents changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of the securities we hold that are classified as short-term investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates as of december 31, 2014. (in thousands) due within one year $ 113,864 due after one year and through 5 years 381,024 total $ 494,888 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2014 . the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2014 : fair value as of december 31, 2014 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $ 499,791 $ 499,276 $ 497,704 $ 491,957 $ 489,026 $ 486,095 based on investment positions as of december 31, 2014, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $5.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. as of december 31, 2013, a similar 100 basis point increase in the yield curve would have resulted in an $8.6 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if the company sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2014, we had $900.0 million of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in two tranches: $500.0 million of 5.375% notes due in 2021; and $400.0 million of 5.750% notes due in 2024. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. foreign currency risk we have foreign currency risk related to our revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. we also have foreign currency risk related to foreign currency transactions and monetary assets and liabilities, including intercompany balances denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on these foreign currency transactions and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities. w e do not use foreign exchange contracts to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. to date, the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate changes on our international streaming segment contribution profit (loss) and consolidated net income have not been material. however, our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd rental outlets. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. if growth rates slow faster than expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments are included in the contractual obligations section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 6, commitments and contingencies in item 8 . given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be 3 table of contents adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service ( original programming ), will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. as we have expanded internationally, we have licensed content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. if we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, or is unable to be shown in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as we expand internationally, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the united states, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; 4 table of contents profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet- connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. if we fail to maintain or, in new markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. as we expand into new markets, we will also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these new markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as facebook and twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. if companies that promote our service decide that we negatively impact their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to such marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our web site such as member reviews. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. 5 table of contents if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain rights to music interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our device partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate 6 table of contents information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, "cloud" computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ("aws") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ("isps") do not interconnect with our cdn, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. the failure to adopt laws protecting strong net neutrality could also increase the cost of doing business. in the united states, on february 16, 2015, the federal communications commission ("fcc") adopted net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks and to prevent isp abuses at interconnection points. the fcc's authority to adopt these rules is currently under review by the u.s. court of appeals for the district of 7 table of contents columbia. to the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, or if the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia invalidates the rules, our business could be adversely impacted. regulators outside the united states, including the european union, have adopted or may adopt network neutrality rules. it is also possible that network neutrality rules may be nascent or non-existent in the global markets in which we operate. within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. in some international markets, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. as our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. for instance, in october 2015, the european court of justice overturned the e.u./u.s. safe harbor program, under which companies were able to transfer personal data from the e.u. to the u.s. in a legally compliant manner. if other legally compliant forms of data transfer are similarly invalidated by courts or other authorities in the e.u., we may need to alter our business practices, and which may adversely affect our business. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. for these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data occur, our business could be adversely affected. 8 table of contents we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. 9 table of contents we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have debt outstanding and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2015, we had $2,400 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if memberships to our domestic dvd segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. changes in u.s. postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our members. increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit. if the u.s. postal service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. financial forecasting may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our investments, debt and foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , we had no impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2015 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk 29 table of contents because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset backed securities. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of the securities we hold that are classified as short-term investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates as of december 31, 2015. (in thousands) due within one year $ 137,927 due after one year and through 5 years 363,458 total $ 501,385 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2015 . the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2015 : fair value as of december 31, 2015 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $ 509,125 $ 507,746 $ 504,661 $ 498,103 $ 494,824 $ 491,545 based on investment positions as of december 31, 2015, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $6.6 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. as of december 31, 2014, a similar 100 basis point increase in the yield curve would have resulted in a $5.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if the company sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2015, we had $2.4 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in four tranches: $500.0 million of 5.375% notes due in 2021; $400.0 million of 5.750% notes due in 2024; $700.0 million of 5.50% notes due in 2022; and $800.0 million of 5.875% notes due in 2025. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. foreign currency risk international revenues and cost of revenues account for 29% and 39%, respectively of consolidated amounts for the year ended december 31, 2015. the majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the japanese yen and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2015, we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $331 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended december 31, 2014. we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2015, we recognized a $37.3 million foreign exchange loss which resulted primarily from the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies in our european entities coupled with the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. 30 table of contentsrisk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd retailers. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. if we do not grow as expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers. we also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these production such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. the payment terms of these agreements are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the contractual obligations section of part ii, 3 table of contents item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. if we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. to the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such merchandise. we may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members or could be damaging to our brand. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music and certain authors' performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach 4 table of contents mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance, licensing, merchandising and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; 5 table of contents different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. while we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. the u.s. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. in addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. if u.s. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. to the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. with newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. for example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. 6 table of contents we utilize marketing to promote our content and drive viewing by our members. to the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. in many instances, our agreements also including provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service. we intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks, both from state-sponsored and individual activity, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data or intellectual property. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. from time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets, however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service or systems. there is no assurance that hackers may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, cloud computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. 7 table of contents we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ( aws ) provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ( isps ) do not interconnect with our cdn, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of bugs in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. as our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the european union. in others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the united states where net neutrality regulations were recently repealed. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. 8 table of contents most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. the extent to which these incentives limit operator behavior differ across markets. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. we also maintain employment and personal information concerning our employees, including those on our own productions. should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf. if these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. 9 table of contents if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. we may also have to remove content from our service. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included copyright and other claims related to our content, patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last three years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service. to the extent our cash flows from 10 table of contents operations continue to be negative, we anticipate seeking additional capital. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $6.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding ( notes ). in addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , we have not borrowed any amount under this revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $7.5 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. for more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our notes and our other obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our streaming obligations include large multi-year commitments. as a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. this could result in our needing to access the capital markets at an unfavorable time, which may negatively impact our stock price we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. our ability to make payments on our debt, including our notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. in each of the last three years, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. we may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations. if we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. if our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. if our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such 11 table of contents alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. if it becomes necessary to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if our domestic dvd segment declines faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund growth or our streaming service. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. if the u.s. postal service were to increase postal delivery rates or implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; 12 table of contents competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, operating margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. in addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. we base such estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates. for example, we estimate the period of use, beginning with the month of first availability, of any particular licensed or produced television series or movie based upon factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns in order to amortize these content assets. if we revise such estimates it could reduce the amortization period or result in impairment charges for the relevant content assets resulting in greater in-period expenses, which could cause us to miss our earnings guidance or negatively impact the results we report which could negatively impact our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our debt and foreign currency fluctuations. in july 2017, we sold all short-term investments. interest rate risk at december 31, 2017 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $6.6 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in seven tranches due between 2021 and 2028. refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. the fair value of our debt will also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency rates, as discussed below. foreign currency risk international revenues and cost of revenues account for 44% and 54% , respectively, of consolidated amounts for the year ended december 31, 2017 . the majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the japanese yen and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $21.9 million lower had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended december 31, 2016 . we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2017 , we recognized a $127.9 million foreign exchange loss which resulted primarily from the remeasurement of our 1,300.0 million senior notes and was partially offset by the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of our european and u.s. entities. in addition, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents in the year ended december 31, 2017 was an increase of $29.8 million . we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv series and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd retailers. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. if we do not grow as expected, given, in particular, that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition, exclusive rights to certain content and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers. we also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these productions such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. the payment terms of these agreements are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the contractual obligations section of part ii, 3 table of contents item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. if we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. we contract with third parties related to the development, production, marketing and distribution of our original programming. we may face potential liability or may suffer losses in connection with these arrangements, including but not limited to if such third parties violate applicable law, become insolvent or engage in fraudulent behavior. to the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such merchandise. we may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members or could be damaging to our brand or business. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. as content providers develop their own streaming services, they may be unwilling to provide us with access to certain content, including popular series or movies. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music and certain authors' performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain 4 table of contents rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. additionally, as the market for the digital distribution of content grows, a broader role for cmos in the remuneration of authors and performers could expose us to greater distribution expenses. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance, licensing, merchandising and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to economic, political, regulatory and other risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and other anti-corruption laws, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; foreign intellectual property laws, or changes to such laws, which may be less favorable than u.s. law and, among other issues, may impact the economics of creating or distributing content, anti-piracy efforts, or our ability to protect or exploit intellectual property rights; adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which will impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; 5 table of contents different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy; and implementation of regulations designed to stimulate the local production of film and tv series in order to promote and preserve local culture and economic activity, including local content quotas, investment obligations, and levies to support local film funds. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. while we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be contested or overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. the u.s. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. in addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. if u.s. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. to the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. with newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing platforms or practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. for example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. 6 table of contents we utilize marketing to promote our content and drive viewing by our members. to the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. in many instances, our agreements also include provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service. we intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream tv series and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are subject to cybersecurity threats, including cyber-attacks, both from state-sponsored and individual activity, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data, confidential information or intellectual property. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems, but techniques used to gain unauthorized access to data and software are constantly evolving, and we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access. because of our prominence, we (and/or third parties we use) may be a particularly attractive target for such attacks, and from time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets. however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service or systems. there is no assurance that hackers may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to develop, implement and maintain. these efforts require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated, and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. further, a penetration of our systems or a third-party's systems or other misappropriation or misuse of personal information could subject us to business, regulatory, litigation and reputation risk, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv series and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, cloud computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats and regulatory interference, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ( aws ) provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service, although if it was to do so it could harm our business. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third-party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ( isps ) do not interconnect with our cdn, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third-party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third-parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of bugs in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. as our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. for example, recent changes to european law enables individual member states to impose levies and other financial obligations on media operators located outside their jurisdiction. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the european union. in others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the united states where net neutrality regulations were repealed. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. 8 table of contents changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. the extent to which these incentives limit operator behavior differs across markets. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information, including but not limited to regulation (eu) 2016/679 (also known as the general data protection regulation or gdpr ). other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third-party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to remain or become members. we also may be required to notify regulators about any actual or perceived data breach (including the eu lead data protection authority) as well as the individuals who are affected by the incident within strict time periods. additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. we also maintain employment and personal information concerning our employees, as well as personal information of others working on our productions. should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, prepaid cards, direct debit, online wallets and direct carrier and partner billing. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, loss of payment partners and/or disruptions or failures in our payment processing systems or payment products, including products we use to update payment information, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in certain instances, we 9 table of contents leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf. if these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to transition subscribers or otherwise find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operations and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. if we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines and our card approval rate may be impacted. the termination of our ability to process payments on any major payment method would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand, content, and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our website, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our our service. we use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current website, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. we may also have to remove content from our service, or remove consumer products or marketing materials from the marketplace. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included copyright and other claims related to our content, patent infringement claims, employment related litigation, as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions, and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we 10 table of contents also from time to time receive inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information requests from government authorities and we may become subject to related claims and other actions related to our business activities. while the ultimate outcome of investigations, inquiries, information requests and related legal proceedings is difficult to predict, such matters can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and adverse resolutions or settlements of those matters may result in, among other things, modification of our business practices, reputational harm or costs and significant payments, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last four years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service. to the extent our cash flows from operations continue to be negative, we anticipate seeking additional capital. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $10.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding ( notes ). in addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2018 , we have not borrowed any amount under this revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $8.4 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. for more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our notes and our other obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; increase our cost of borrowing; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates. our streaming obligations include large multi-year commitments. as a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. this could result in our needing to access the capital markets at an unfavorable time, which may negatively impact our stock price. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. our ability to make payments on our debt, including our notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business 11 table of contents and other factors beyond our control. in each of the last four years, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. we may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations. if we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. if our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. if our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. if it becomes necessary to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company's business. our partners, suppliers, vendors and we employ the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent as well as trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements in the motion picture industry, both in the u.s. and internationally. if expiring collective bargaining agreements can not be renewed then it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. 12 table of contents our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, operating income, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, operating margins, net income and number of paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. in addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. we base such estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates. for example, we estimate the amortization pattern, beginning with the month of first availability, of any particular licensed or produced television series or movie based upon factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns. if we revise such estimates it could result in greater in-period expenses, which could cause us to miss our earnings guidance or negatively impact the results we report which could negatively impact our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our debt and foreign currency fluctuations. in july 2017, we sold all short-term investments. interest rate risk at december 31, 2018 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $10.4 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in ten tranches due between 2021 and 2029. refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. the fair value of our debt will also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency rates, as discussed below. foreign currency risk international revenues and cost of revenues account for 49% and 58% , respectively, of consolidated amounts for the year ended december 31, 2018 . the majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the mexican peso and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $94 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended december 31, 2017 . we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2018 , we recognized a $1 million foreign exchange loss due to the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of our european and u.s. entities, mostly offset by the remeasurement of our senior notes denominated in euros. in addition, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents in the year ended december 31, 2018 was a decrease of $40 million . we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, effectively market our service, as well as provide a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv series and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, and streaming entertainment providers (including those that provide pirated content), as well as video gaming providers and more broadly other sources of entertainment that our members could choose in their moments of free time. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. while we permit multiple users within the same household to share a single account for non-commercial purposes, if account sharing is abused, our ability to add new members may be hindered and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we do not grow as expected, given, in particular, that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their streaming video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition, exclusive rights to certain content and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers. we also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these productions such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. 3 table of contents the payment terms of these agreements are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the contractual obligations section of part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. if we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. we contract with third parties related to the development, production, marketing and distribution of our original programming. we may face potential liability or may suffer losses in connection with these arrangements, including but not limited to if such third parties violate applicable law, become insolvent or engage in fraudulent behavior. to the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such merchandise. we may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members, or could be damaging to our brand or business. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights, including distribution rights, to such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. as content providers develop their own streaming services, they may be unwilling to provide us with access to certain content, including popular series or movies. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members may be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we see the cost of certain programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and 4 table of contents renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music and certain authors' performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. additionally, as the market for the digital distribution of content grows, a broader role for cmos in the remuneration of authors and performers could expose us to greater distribution expenses. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and streaming video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance, licensing, merchandising and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. further, we may expand our content offering in a manner that is not well received by consumers. as we grow our operations, we may face integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities and reputational concerns in connection with partners we work with or companies we may acquire or control. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to economic, political, regulatory and other risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and other anti-corruption laws, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions, including local ownership requirements for streaming content providers; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; foreign intellectual property laws, such as the eu copyright directive, or changes to such laws, which may be less favorable than u.s. law and, among other issues, may impact the economics of creating or distributing content, anti-piracy efforts, or our ability to protect or exploit intellectual property rights; adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which will impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; 5 table of contents differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment, brand tarnishment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization and/or restrictions on data export, and local ownership requirements; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy; negative impacts from trade disputes; and implementation of regulations designed to stimulate the local production of film and tv series in order to promote and preserve local culture and economic activity, including local content quotas, investment obligations, and levies to support local film funds. for example, the european union recently revised its audio visual media services directive to require that european works comprise at least thirty (30) percent of media service providers' catalogs, and to require prominence of those works. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. while we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. tax laws are being re-examined and evaluated globally. new laws and interpretations of the law are taken into account for financial statement purposes in the quarter or year that they become applicable. tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. if u.s. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. to the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations. we could also face boycotts which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, to the extent our response to government action or our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. with newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service and content to existing and potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing platforms or practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to engage members and attract new members may be adversely affected. 6 table of contents companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. for example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously canceled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize marketing to promote our content, drive conversation about our content and service, and drive viewing by our members. to the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers, some of whom may have investments in competing streaming content providers. in many instances, our agreements also include provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service. if partners or other providers do a better job of connecting consumers with content they want to watch, for example through multi-service discovery interfaces, our service may be adversely impacted. we intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream tv series and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices, or may lead to us to stop supporting the delivery of our service on certain legacy devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, or if we discontinue support for certain devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from, among other things, earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, rogue employees, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver our service. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are subject to cybersecurity threats, including cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of personal information and other data, confidential information or intellectual property. additionally, outside parties may attempt to induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems, but the techniques used to gain unauthorized access to data and software are constantly evolving, and we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access. because of our prominence, we (and/or third parties we use) may be a particularly attractive target for 7 table of contents such attacks, and from time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets. however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service, systems or business. there is no assurance that hackers may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to develop, implement and maintain. these efforts require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated, and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. further, a penetration of our systems or a third-party's systems or other misappropriation or misuse of personal information could subject us to business, regulatory, litigation and reputation risk, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv series and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party cloud computing or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats and regulatory interference, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ( aws ) provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service, although if it was to do so it could harm our business. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third-party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ( isps ) do not interconnect with our cdn or charge us to access their networks, or if we experience difficulties in our cdn's operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third-party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third-parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of bugs in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. as our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. for example, recent changes to european law enables individual member states to impose levies and other financial obligations on media operators located outside their jurisdiction. we anticipate that several jurisdictions may, over time, impose greater financial and regulatory obligations on us. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. 8 table of contents changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the european union. in others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the united states where net neutrality regulations were repealed. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. the extent to which these incentives limit operator behavior differs across markets. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage member personal information and other data and disclosure of member personal information and other data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize information supplied by our members, which may include personal information and other data. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information, including but not limited to regulation (eu) 2016/679 (also known as the general data protection regulation or gdpr ) and the california consumer privacy act ("ccpa"). any actual or perceived failure to comply with the gdpr, the ccpa, other data privacy laws or regulations, or related contractual or other obligations, or any perceived privacy rights violation, could lead to investigations, claims, and proceedings by governmental entities and private parties, damages for contract breach, and other significant costs, penalties, and other liabilities, as well as harm to our reputation and market position. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use information and other data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose information and other data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if member personal information and other data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal information and other data regarding our members, including names and billing information. this information and data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing information, such as credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' information and other data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third-party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' information and other data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to remain or become members. we also may be required to notify regulators about any actual or perceived data breach (including the eu lead data protection 9 table of contents authority) as well as the individuals who are affected by the incident within strict time periods. additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. we also maintain personal information and other data concerning our employees, as well as personal information of others working on our productions. should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' personal information and other data and/or production personal information occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, prepaid cards, direct debit, online wallets and direct carrier and partner billing. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations, including additional authentication requirements for certain payment methods, and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, changes to rules or regulations concerning payments, loss of payment partners and/or disruptions or failures in our payment processing systems, partner systems or payment products, including products we use to update payment information, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf. if these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to transition subscribers or otherwise find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operations and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. if we are unable to maintain our fraud and chargeback rate at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines, our card approval rate may be impacted and we may be subject to additional card authentication requirements. the termination of our ability to process payments on any major payment method would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand, content, and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our website and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our website, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our service. we use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not 10 table of contents searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current website, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. we may also have to remove content from our service, or remove consumer products or marketing materials from the marketplace. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included copyright and other claims related to our content, patent infringement claims, employment related litigation, as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions, and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we also from time to time receive inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information requests from government authorities and we may become subject to related claims and other actions related to our business activities. while the ultimate outcome of investigations, inquiries, information requests and related legal proceedings is difficult to predict, such matters can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and adverse resolutions or settlements of those matters may result in, among other things, modification of our business practices, reputational harm or costs and significant payments, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last five years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service. we expect our cash flows from operations to continue to be negative for some time, and anticipate seeking additional capital. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. any disruption in the capital markets could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital or refinance our existing indebtedness. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. if the financial markets become difficult or costly to access, our ability to raise additional capital may be negatively impacted. as of december 31, 2019 , we had the equivalent of $14.9 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding ( notes ), some of which is denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2019 , we have not borrowed any amount under this revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $7.7 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet, some of which is denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. for more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our notes and our other obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; 11 table of contents increase our cost of borrowing; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. our streaming obligations include large multi-year commitments. as a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. this could result in our needing to access the capital markets at an unfavorable time, which may negatively impact our stock price. the interest rate of borrowings under our revolving credit agreement makes reference to an adjusted london interbank offered rate ("libo rate"). it is possible that beginning in 2022, the libo rate will be discontinued as a reference rate. under our revolving credit agreement, in the event of the discontinuance of the libo rate, a mutually agreed-upon alternate benchmark rate will be established to replace the libo rate. in the event that an agreement cannot be reached on an appropriate benchmark rate, the availability of borrowings under our revolving credit agreement could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. our ability to make payments on our debt, including our notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. in each of the last five years, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. we may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations. if we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. if our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. if our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. if it becomes necessary to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical, creative and other personnel. if we experience high executive turnover, are not successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining and motivating existing personnel, in instilling our culture in new employees, or improving our culture as we grow, our operations may be disrupted. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company's business. our partners, suppliers, vendors and we employ the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent as well as trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements in the motion picture industry, both in the u.s. and internationally. expiring collective bargaining agreements may be renewed on terms that are unfavorable to us. if expiring collective bargaining agreements cannot be renewed, then it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs or operating complexities in connection with these collective 12 table of contents bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays in production, added costs or by reducing profit margins. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, operating income, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, operating margins, net income and number of paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. in addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. we base such estimates on historical experience and on various other 13 table of contents assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates. for example, we estimate the amortization pattern, beginning with the month of first availability, of any particular licensed or produced television series or movie based upon various factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns. if actual viewing patterns differ from these estimates, the pattern and/or period of amortization would be changed and could affect the timing or recognition of content amortization. if we revise such estimates it could result in greater in-period expenses, which could cause us to miss our earnings guidance or negatively impact the results we report which could negatively impact our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our debt and foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate risk at december 31, 2019 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds. interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $14.9 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in fourteen tranches due between 2021 and 2030. refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. the fair value of our debt will also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency rates, as discussed below. foreign currency risk revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar account for 50% of the consolidated amount for the year ended december 31, 2019 . we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the mexican peso and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and operating income as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , 30 table of contents our revenues would have been approximately $762 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained constant with those for the year ended december 31, 2018 . we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2019 , we recognized a $7 million foreign exchange gain due to the remeasurement of our senior notes denominated in euros, partially offset by the remeasurement of cash and content liability positions denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of our european and u.s. entities. exchange rate changes had an immaterial impact on cash and cash equivalents in the year ended december 31, 2019 . we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. to minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate.risk factors 8 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be affected adversely. we must continue to attract new subscribers. to succeed, we must continue to attract a large number of subscribers who have traditionally used video retailers, video rental outlets, cable channels, such as hbo and showtime, pay-per-view and vod for in-home filmed entertainment. in addition, we face direct competition to our service, namely from services like blockbuster online, that will likely impact our ability to attract subscribers. our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing accurate recommendations through our recommendation service. furthermore, if our competitors are able to offer similar service levels at lower prices, our ability to attract subscribers will be affected adversely. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our new subscribers originate from word-of-mouth advertising and referrals from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be affected adversely. if we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. we must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value and/or experience, and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be affected adversely. the market for in-home filmed entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies for delivery of in-home filmed entertainment, such as vod and downloading over the internet, continue to receive considerable media attention. many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. the rapid growth of our online entertainment subscription business since our inception may continue to attract direct competition from larger companies with significantly greater financial resources and national brand recognition. for example, we have seen the entry of direct competition from blockbuster, which launched its online service in august 2004, and could face competition from potential new entrants into the online dvd rental market. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. in addition, many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in-home filmed entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. for example, consumers may subscribe to hbo, rent a dvd from blockbuster, buy a dvd from wal-mart and subscribe to netflix, or some 8 table of contents combination thereof, all in the same month. new competitors may be able to launch new businesses at relatively low cost. dvds represent only one of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing filmed entertainment. in addition, the growth in adoption of dvd technology is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors and technologies, we may not be able to achieve adequate market share, increase our revenues or maintain profitability. our principal competitors include, or could include: video rental outlets, such as blockbuster and movie gallery; online dvd subscription rental sites, such as blockbuster online; pay-per-view and vod services and alternative content delivery methods such as apple video ipod and moviebeam; movie retail stores, such as best buy, wal-mart and amazon.com; subscription entertainment services, such as hbo and showtime; internet movie providers, such as movielink, cinemanow.com and vongo; internet companies such as yahoo! and google; cable providers, such as aol time warner and comcast; and direct broadcast satellite providers, such as directv and echostar. some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing and web site and systems development than we do. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. as a result of increased competition, we have seen and may continue to see a reduction in operating margins and market share. if vod or other technologies are widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery by the studios and consumers, our business could be adversely affected. some digital cable providers and internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as vod. this technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. high-speed internet access has greatly increased the speed and quality of viewing vod content, including feature-length movies, on personal computers over the internet. in addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, such as on cell phones or other handheld devices such as apple ipod. if vod or other technologies become affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery widely supported by studios and adopted by consumers, our business could be adversely affected. if the popularity of the dvd format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. consumers have rapidly adopted the dvd format for viewing in-home filmed entertainment. over the past several years dvd sales have grown and now surpassed the vhs format. in addition, dvd sales account for more than 42% of studio revenues. we believe that the dvd format, including any successor formats such as hd-dvd and bluray, will be valuable long-term consumer propositions and studio profit centers. however, if dvd sales were to decrease, whether because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of dvd enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the dvd format. our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by future popularity of the dvd format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. 9 table of contents we depend on studios to release titles on dvd for an exclusive time period following theatrical release. our ability to attract and retain subscribers is related to our ability to offer new releases of filmed entertainment on dvds prior to their release to other distribution channels. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a significant competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window for dvds. the window for dvd rental and retail sales is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies. our business could suffer increased competition if: the window for rental were no longer the first following the theatrical release; or the length of this window was shortened. the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel is determined solely by the studio releasing the title, and we cannot assure you that the studios will not change their policies in the future in a manner that would be adverse to our business and results of operations. currently, studios distribute their filmed entertainment content approximately three to six months after theatrical release to the home video market, seven to nine months after theatrical release to pay-per-view and vod, one year after theatrical release to satellite and cable, and two to three years after theatrical release to basic cable and syndicated networks. however, in what continues to be an emerging trend, the major studios have shortened the release window on certain titles, in particular the theatrical to home video window. in addition, some studios have discussed eliminating the release window on certain titles, in particular releasing movies simultaneously on dvd and vod. if we are unable to offset increased demand for titles with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be affected adversely. with our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies that subscribers may rent. historically, on a plan-by-plan basis, we have seen the average number of movies rented per subscriber increase on an annual basis. we believe that this increase in usage is influenced by improvements to our service as well as consumer usage habits. in addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. we are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. such adjustments include new web site features and merchandising practices, an expanded distribution network, as well as software and process changes. our subscribers may continue to increase their usage of our service, which would increase our operating costs. if our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of increased operating costs, our operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be affected adversely if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. if our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to acquire and deliver more frequently, our expenses will increase. certain titles cost us more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. if subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other dvd acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. in addition, films released on the new high definition dvd formats, hd-dvd and bluray, may be more expensive to acquire. the rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. if subscribers select these formats on a 10 table of contents proportional basis more often than the existing dvd format, our dvd acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results will be affected adversely. the netflix brand is still developing, and we must continue to build strong brand identity. to succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of owners of dvd players who have traditionally relied on store-based rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service through our web site. in addition, we will have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours, such as blockbuster. we believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as vod. from time-to-time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation and delivery processing. to the extent such dissatisfaction is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers will be affected adversely. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels may be affected adversely and our marketing expenses may increase. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain a large portion of our new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including third party banner ads, pop-under placements, direct links and permission-based e-mails as well as our active affiliate program. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels may be affected adversely and our marketing expenses may increase. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise be required to increase our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be affected adversely. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. we anticipate further expanding our operations to help grow our subscriber base and to take advantage of favorable market opportunities. any future expansion will likely place significant demands on our managerial, operational, administrative and financial resources. if we are not able to respond effectively to new or increased demands that arise because of 11 table of contents our growth, or, if in responding, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be affected adversely. in addition, if we do not have sufficient breadth and depth of the titles necessary to satisfy increased demand arising from growth in our subscriber base, our subscriber satisfaction may be affected adversely. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations. our proprietary technology is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. we continually enhance or modify the software used for our distribution operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our proprietary technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of dvds among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit and marketing expenses. increases in postage delivery rates will adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service recently increased the rate for first class postage on january 8, 2006 by 2 cents, from 37 cents to 39 cents. in addition, the u.s. congress has been considering postal reform legislation which would provide the u.s. postal service with more flexibility in establishing postal rates. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds and our gross margin could be affected adversely. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be affected adversely. currently, most filmed entertainment is packaged on a single lightweight dvd. our delivery process is designed to accommodate the delivery of one dvd to fulfill a selection. because of the lightweight nature of a dvd, we generally mail one envelope containing a title using standard u.s. postage. studios occasionally provide additional content on a second dvd or may package a title on two dvds. in addition, the studios have recently announced plans to release certain films in high definition format on hd-dvds and bluray dvds. these new dvds have characteristics that are different than those currently in circulation. these high-definition format dvds may be heavier and/or more fragile than current dvds. if packaging of filmed entertainment on 12 table of contents multiple dvds were to become more prevalent, if the weight of dvds were to increase, or the durability of dvds deteriorate, our costs of delivery and fulfillment processing would increase and our costs of replacing damaged dvds may rise materially which would depress gross margins and profitability and adversely affect free cash flow. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandize our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure you that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing such refinements. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. if our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be affected adversely; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be affected adversely; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be affected adversely. if we do not correctly anticipate our short and long-term needs for titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be affected adversely. if we do not acquire sufficient copies of titles, we may not satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be affected adversely. conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be affected adversely. if we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of purchasing titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be affected adversely. since 2000, we have entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors. these revenue sharing agreements generally have terms of up to five years. revenue share agreements typically enable us to increase our copy depth of dvds on an economical basis because of the low initial payment. additional payments are made only if our subscribers rent the dvd. under a purchase arrangement, we must pay the full wholesale price, regardless of whether the dvd is rented. in addition, revenue sharing agreements generally provide for studio promotional support of the associated dvd and our service as well as permit us to own the dvd following expiration of the revenue sharing period, typically no more than 12 months following street date. during the course of our revenue sharing relationship with studios and distributors, various contract administration issues arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors may be adversely impacted. 13 table of contents as our revenue sharing agreements expire, we may be required to negotiate new terms that could be disadvantageous to us or if we cannot renew the agreements we would be required to purchase titles. in such event, the cost of acquiring content could increase and our gross margins may be affected adversely. in addition, if we were required to purchase titles the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase. titles that we do not acquire under a revenue sharing agreement are purchased on a wholesale basis from studios or other distributors. if the price of purchased titles increases, our gross margin will be affected adversely. if the sales price of dvds to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. the cost of manufacturing dvds is substantially less than the price for which new dvds are generally sold in the retail market. thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of dvds have significant flexibility in pricing dvds for retail sale. if the retail price of dvds decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase dvds instead of subscribing to our service. we may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. historically, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures through proceeds from private equity and debt financings, equipment leases and cash flow from operations. although we currently anticipate that the proceeds from our may 2002 initial public offering, together with our available funds and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing. our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any significant disruption in service on our web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. interruptions in these systems could make our web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. service interruptions or the unavailability of our web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. any significant disruption to our web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our web site are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these 14 table of contents systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. problems faced by our third party web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could impact adversely the experience of our subscribers. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the san francisco bay area. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations would be affected adversely. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center, which also houses our customer service operations, are located in the san francisco bay area. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations due to disruptions in service in the san francisco bay area or any other facility. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our sunnyvale-based operations center and the surrounding transportation infrastructure. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. the loss of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or chief marketing officer, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business and new service developments. we depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, w. barry mccarthy jr., our chief financial officer and leslie j. kilgore, our chief marketing officer. in addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data. in the ordinary course of business, and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation, as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our billing data were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. to secure transmission of confidential information obtained by us for billing purposes, including subscribers credit card or checking account data, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology. in conjunction with the payment processing companies, we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, and our business could be affected adversely. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the 15 table of contents extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards and, to a lesser extent, electronic checks. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. these fees may increase in 2006. such increase may adversely affect our results of operations. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. netflix is a registered trademark of netflix, inc. in the united states and united kingdom. we have also filed trademark applications in the united states for the friends and profiles service marks and for the netflix design logo, and have filed u.s. patent applications for certain aspects of our technology. we have also filed a trademark application in the european union for the netflix name. from time to time we expect to file additional trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be affected adversely. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and 16 table of contents management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandizing or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be affected adversely. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could affect adversely our reputation and brand, and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. forecasting film revenue and associated gross profits from our films prior to release is extremely difficult and may result in significant write-offs. we are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from the associated films. the amount of film production costs that will be amortized each period depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each film. unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. if estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. in any given period, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual film, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, we base our estimates of revenue on performance of comparable titles and our knowledge of the industry. if the information is incorrect, the amount of revenue and related expenses that we recognize from our films could be wrong, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. if we become subject to liability for content that we publish or that we distribute on dvd through our service, our results of operations would be affected adversely. as a publisher of content, a host of third party content and a distributor of content on dvd, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure you that we are adequately insured to cover claims of these types or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. if government regulation of the internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the 17 table of contents growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the manner in which internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. in addition, if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, consumers may become unwilling to select their entertainment online or otherwise provide us with information necessary for them to become subscribers. further, we may not be able to effectively market our services online to users of the internet. if we are unable to interact with consumers because of changes in their attitude toward use of the internet, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be affected adversely. we may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and recently-enacted rules promulgated by the securities and exchange commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we evaluate the implications of these rules and devote resources to respond to their requirements. the nasdaq national market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. we also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over netflix. as of december 31, 2005, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31 percent of our outstanding common stock, warrants and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, jay hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 21 percent and reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 10 percent. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from yours and will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. 18 table of contents provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15 percent or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. we record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. during the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 accounting for stock-based compensation ( sfas 123 ) for stock- based employee compensation. in addition, during the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to 19 table of contents our employees on a monthly basis. the vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four-year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. as a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expenses determined under sfas no. 123 are fully recognized in the same periods as the monthly stock option grants. in addition, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation of stock options with three to four-year vesting periods granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 over the remaining vesting periods. our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $10.7 million, $16.6 million and $14.3 million during 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. we expect our stock-based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. the black-scholes option-pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of dvds shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. to minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate.risk factors 9 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. we must continue to attract new subscribers. to succeed, we must continue to attract a large number of subscribers who have traditionally used video retailers, video rental outlets, cable channels, such as hbo and showtime, pay-per-view and vod for in-home filmed entertainment. in addition, we face direct competition to our service, namely from services like blockbuster online, that will likely impact our ability to attract subscribers. our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing accurate recommendations through our recommendation service. furthermore, the relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract subscribers. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our new subscribers originate from word-of-mouth advertising and referrals from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be adversely affected. if we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. we must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value and/or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for in-home filmed entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies for delivery of in-home filmed entertainment, such as vod and digital delivery of content over the internet, continue to receive considerable media and investor attention. many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. the rapid growth of our online entertainment subscription business since our inception may continue to attract direct competition from larger companies with significantly greater financial resources and national brand recognition. we could also face competition from potential new entrants into the online dvd rental or movie download markets. for example, we have seen the entry of direct competition from blockbuster, which launched its online service in august 2004 and continues to augment its online offering with differentiated services, such as its total access program, which allows customers to exchange online rentals with in-store rentals. in addition, apple video ipod, amazon unbox, wal-mart dvd download offerings and announcements from other companies ranging from google and yahoo! to microsoft and intel regarding their efforts in digital delivery of content highlight the extremely dynamic environment in which we operate our 9 table of contents business. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. in addition, many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in-home filmed entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. for example, consumers may subscribe to hbo, rent a dvd from blockbuster, buy or download a dvd from wal-mart or amazon and subscribe to netflix, or some combination thereof, all in the same month. new competitors may be able to launch new businesses at relatively low cost. dvds and downloading represent only two of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing filmed entertainment. in addition, the growth in adoption of dvd and downloading technology is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, we may not be able to achieve adequate market share, increase our revenues or maintain profitability. our principal competitors include, or could include: video rental outlets, such as blockbuster and movie gallery; online dvd subscription rental sites, such as blockbuster online; pay-per-view and vod services; movie retail stores, such as best buy, wal-mart and amazon.com; subscription entertainment services, such as hbo and showtime; internet movie providers, such as itunes, amazon.com, movielink, cinemanow.com and vongo; internet companies such as yahoo! and google; cable providers, such as time warner and comcast; and direct broadcast satellite providers, such as directv and echostar. some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing and web site and systems development than we do. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. as a result of increased competition, we may see a reduction in operating margins and market share. if vod or other technologies are more widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery by the studios and consumers, our business could be adversely affected. some digital cable providers and internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as vod. this technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. high-speed internet access has greatly increased the speed and quality of viewing vod content, including feature-length movies, on personal computers over the internet. in addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, such as on cell phones or other handheld devices such as apple ipod. although we anticipate providing solutions for online delivery of content, as evidenced by the recent launch of our instant-viewing feature, vod or other technologies may become more affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery that are widely supported by studios and adopted by consumers. if this happens more quickly than we anticipate or more quickly than our own online delivery offerings, or if other providers are better able to meet studio and consumer needs and expectations our business could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents if the popularity of the dvd format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. consumers have rapidly adopted the dvd format for viewing in-home filmed entertainment. at present, dvd sales account for approximately 43% of studio revenues. while the growth of dvd sales has slowed, we believe that the dvd format, including any successor formats such as hd-dvd and bluray, will be valuable long-term consumer propositions and studio profit centers. however, if dvd sales were to decrease, whether because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of dvd enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the dvd format. our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by future popularity of the dvd format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. we depend on studios to release titles on dvd for an exclusive time period following theatrical release. our ability to attract and retain subscribers is related to our ability to offer new releases of filmed entertainment on dvds prior to their release to other distribution channels. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a significant competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window for dvds. the window for dvd rental and retail sales is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies. our business could suffer increased competition if: the window for rental were no longer the first following the theatrical release; or the length of this window was shortened. the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel is determined solely by the studio releasing the title, and we cannot assure you that the studios will not change their policies in the future in a manner that would be adverse to our business and results of operations. currently, studios distribute their filmed entertainment content approximately three to six months after theatrical release to the home video market, seven to nine months after theatrical release to pay-per-view and vod, one year after theatrical release to satellite and cable and two to three years after theatrical release to basic cable and syndicated networks. in what continues to be an emerging trend, however, the major studios have shortened the release window on certain titles, in particular the theatrical to home video window. in addition, some studios have discussed eliminating the release window on certain titles, in particular releasing movies simultaneously on dvd and vod. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work to another, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. likewise, if studios agree to limit the sale of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, in late 2006, the weinstein company announced an arrangement with blockbuster by which weinstein would distribute content on dvds for rental exclusively by blockbuster. in so doing, they contractually prohibited certain distributors from selling the dvds to rental establishments. nonetheless, the content was being distributed to retail vendors and distributors. while this structure does not prohibit us from obtaining and renting weinstein dvds under the first sale doctrine, it does impact our ability to obtain weinstein content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in enough quantities to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created, our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. 11 table of contents if we experience increased demand for titles which we are unable to offset with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be adversely affected. with our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies that subscribers may rent. we are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. such adjustments include new web site features and merchandising practices, computer-based instant viewing of select titles through our instant-viewing feature, an expanded dvd distribution network and software and process changes. in addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. if our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of any increased operating costs associated with increased usage, our operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be adversely affected if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. if our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to acquire and deliver more frequently, our expenses may increase. certain titles cost us more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. if subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. in addition, films released on the new high definition dvd formats, hd-dvd and bluray, and those released for online delivery may be more expensive to acquire than in dvd format. the rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. if subscribers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing dvd format, our dvd acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. the netflix brand is still developing, and we must continue to build strong brand identity. to succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of owners of dvd players who have traditionally relied on store-based rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service through our web site. in addition, we will have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours, such as blockbuster. we believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition, both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as vod. from time-to-time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation and delivery processing. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including third party banner ads, pop-under placements, direct links and permission-based e-mails as well as our active affiliate program. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to 12 table of contents increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. we anticipate further expanding our operations to help grow our subscriber base and to take advantage of favorable market opportunities. any future expansion will likely place significant demands on our managerial, operational, administrative and financial resources. if we are not able to respond effectively to new or increased demands that arise because of our growth, or, if in responding, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not have sufficient breadth and depth of dvd and online titles necessary to satisfy increased demand arising from growth in our subscriber base, our subscriber satisfaction may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations. our proprietary technology is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. we continually enhance or modify the software used for our distribution operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our proprietary technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of dvds among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, through our new instant-viewing feature, our subscribers will access titles on our web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. if this proprietary software fails to satisfactorily display the available titles, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers caused by the proprietary software could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet 13 table of contents our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit and marketing expenses. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on january 8, 2006 by 2 cents, from 37 cents to 39 cents, and proposed another increase in the amount of 3 cents. if approved, the increase is expected to take place in mid-2007. in addition, the u.s. congress recently passed postal reform legislation which provides the u.s. postal service with more flexibility in establishing postal rates. it is unclear at this point the extent to which this new legislation may impact our operations and costs, but it does appear that the expected 2007 increase in postage will take place. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds and our gross margin could be adversely affected. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. currently, most filmed entertainment is packaged on a single lightweight dvd. our delivery process is designed to accommodate the delivery of one dvd to fulfill a selection. because of the lightweight nature of a dvd, we generally mail one dvd per envelope using standard u.s. postage. studios occasionally provide additional content on a second dvd or may package a title on two dvds. in addition, the studios have begun to release certain films in high definition format on hd-dvds and bluray dvds. these new dvds have characteristics that are different than those currently in circulation. these high-definition format dvds may be heavier and/or more fragile than current dvds. if packaging of filmed entertainment on multiple dvds were to become more prevalent, if the weight of dvds were to increase, or the durability of dvds deteriorate, our costs of delivery and fulfillment processing would increase and our costs of replacing damaged dvds may rise materially which would depress gross margins and profitability and adversely affect free cash flow. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure you that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. for example, in 2006 we launched a contest intended to encourage the development of algorithms that will significantly improve the predictive accuracy of our recommendation service, and we intend to use the results of this contest to further refine its utility. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. 14 table of contents if our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. if we do not correctly anticipate our short- and long-term needs for dvd titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient copies of dvds, we may not satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be adversely affected. conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be adversely affected. our ability to accurately predict subscriber demand as well as market factors such as exclusive distribution arrangements may impact our ability to acquire appropriate quantities of certain dvds. if we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of purchasing titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be adversely affected. we acquire dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements as well as direct purchase arrangements. whether we enter into a direct purchase or revenue sharing arrangement depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. starting in 2000, we entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors which typically enabled us to increase our copy depth of dvds on an economical basis because of a low initial payment with additional payments made only if our subscribers rent the dvd. during the course of our revenue sharing relationships, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors may be adversely impacted. as the revenue sharing agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms, or shift to direct purchasing arrangements, under which we must pay the full wholesale price, regardless of whether the dvd is rented. we have seen the purchase mix shift toward direct purchasing arrangements as revenue sharing agreements expire. if we cannot renegotiate purchasing arrangements on favorable terms, the cost of acquiring content could increase and our gross margins may be adversely affected. in addition, the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase if we are required to directly purchase more titles. if the sales price of dvds to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the cost of manufacturing dvds is substantially less than the price for which new dvds are generally sold in the retail market. thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of dvds have significant flexibility in pricing dvds for retail sale. if the retail price of dvds decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase dvds instead of subscribing to our service. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, 15 table of contents business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any significant disruption in service on our web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. interruptions in these systems could make our web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. in addition, through our new instant-viewing feature, our subscribers will access titles on our web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of our web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. any significant disruption to our web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our web site and our online delivery of content are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. problems faced by our third party web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the san francisco bay area. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations would be adversely affected. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the san francisco bay area. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations due to disruptions in service in the san francisco bay area or any other facility. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our sunnyvale-based operations center and the surrounding transportation infrastructure. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. 16 table of contents the loss of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or chief marketing officer, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business and new service developments. we depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, barry mccarthy, our chief financial officer and leslie j. kilgore, our chief marketing officer. in addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data. in the ordinary course of business, and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation, as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our billing data were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. to secure transmission of confidential information obtained by us for billing purposes, including subscribers credit card or checking account data, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology. in conjunction with the payment processing companies, we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards and, to a lesser extent, electronic checks. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. these fees may increase in 2007. such increase may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards and, to a lesser extent, electronic checks. these rules, regulations and 17 table of contents practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings, such as our complaint for patent infringement against blockbuster, inc. filed in april 2006. netflix is a registered trademark of netflix, inc. in the united states and united kingdom. we have also filed trademark applications in the united states for the friends and profiles service marks and for the netflix design logo, and have filed u.s. patent applications for certain aspects of our technology. we have also filed a trademark application in the european union for the netflix name. from time to time we expect to file additional trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand, and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by 18 table of contents governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. forecasting film revenue and associated gross profits from our films prior to release is extremely difficult and may result in significant write-offs. we are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from the associated films. the amount of film production costs that will be amortized each period depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each film. unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. if estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. in any given period, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual film, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, we base our estimates of revenue on performance of comparable titles and our knowledge of the industry. if the information is incorrect, the amount of revenue and related expenses that we recognize from our films could be wrong, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. if we become subject to liability for content that we publish or distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a publisher of content, a host of third party content and a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. for example, our wholly-owned subsidiary, red envelope entertainment, llc, which is dedicated to acquiring and funding original content productions, may be exposed to liability for copyright infringement and other claims relating to the original content. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure you that we are adequately insured to cover claims of these types or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. if government regulation of the internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the manner in which internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the adoption of any laws or regulations that 19 table of contents adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. in addition, if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, consumers may become unwilling to select their entertainment online or otherwise provide us with information necessary for them to become subscribers. further, we may not be able to effectively market our services online to users of the internet. if we are unable to interact with consumers because of changes in their attitude toward use of the internet, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. we may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and recently-enacted rules promulgated by the securities and exchange commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we evaluate the implications of these rules and devote resources to respond to their requirements. the nasdaq global select market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. we also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over netflix. as of december 31, 2006, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 30 percent of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, jay hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 21 percent and reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 7 percent. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from yours and will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; 20 table of contents provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15 percent or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. we record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. during the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 accounting for stock-based compensation ( sfas 123 ) for stock-based employee compensation. in addition, during the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. the vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four-year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. as a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expenses determined under sfas no. 123 are fully recognized in the same periods as the monthly stock option grants. in addition, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation of stock options with three to four-year vesting periods granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 over the remaining vesting periods. our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $16.6 million, $14.3 million and $12.7 million during 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. we expect our stock-based compensation 21 table of contents expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. the black-scholes option-pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. if factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect the fair value estimate of stock-based payments, our operating income, net income and net income per share. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of dvds shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. to minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. at december 31, 2006, our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. we must continue to attract subscribers to our service. our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing accurate recommendations through our recommendation service. furthermore, the relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract subscribers. competitors include video retailers, video rental outlets, kiosk services, internet content providers, including online dvd rental services, cable channels, such as hbo, showtime and starz, pay per-view and vod. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service, originate from word-of-mouth advertising and are directly referred to our service from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be adversely affected. if the market segment for online dvd rentals saturates, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced rapid growth of our online dvd rental subscription business since our inception. we have attracted a large number of subscribers who have traditionally used video retailers, video rental outlets, cable channels, pay-per-view and vod for their in-home filmed entertainment. while the market segment for online dvd rental has grown significantly, we saw our growth slow in 2007. our slowing growth appears primarily to be the result of the rapid growth of our direct competitor, blockbuster online. even with the apparent reduced competitive threat from blockbuster online, our rate of growth may continue to slow. such slowing growth could indicate that the market segment for online rentals is beginning to saturate. while we believe that online dvd rentals will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. if we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. we must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for in-home filmed entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies for delivery of in-home filmed entertainment, such as vod and internet delivery of content, continue to receive considerable media and investor attention. many of our competitors have longer operating 9 table of contents histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. in addition, many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in-home filmed entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. for example, consumers may subscribe to hbo, rent a dvd from blockbuster, buy a dvd from wal-mart or amazon, download a movie from apple and subscribe to netflix, or some combination thereof, all in the same month. new competitors may be able to launch new businesses at a relatively low cost. dvds and internet delivery of content represent only two of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing filmed entertainment. in addition, the growth in adoption of dvd and downloading technology is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, we may not be able to achieve adequate market share, increase our revenues or maintain profitability. our principal competitors include: video rental outlets and kiosk services, such as blockbuster, movie gallery and redbox; online dvd subscription rental sites, such as blockbuster online; pay-per-view and vod services; movie retail stores, such as best buy, wal-mart and amazon.com; subscription entertainment services, such as hbo, showtime and starz; internet movie and television content providers, such as itunes, amazon.com, vongo, hulu, movielink, and cinemanow.com; internet companies, such as yahoo! and google; cable providers, such as time warner and comcast; and direct broadcast satellite providers, such as directv and echostar. some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing, web site and systems development than we do. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. as a result of increased competition, we may see a reduction in operating margins and market share. if vod or other technologies are more widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery by the studios and consumers, our business could be adversely affected. some digital cable providers and internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as vod. this technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. high-speed internet access has greatly increased the speed and quality of viewing vod content, including feature-length movies, on personal computers and televisions. in addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, such as on cell phones or other devices such as apple video ipod and apple tv. although we anticipate providing solutions for the internet-based delivery of content, as evidenced by our instant-watching feature, vod or other technologies may become more affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery that are widely supported by studios and adopted by consumers. if this happens more quickly than we anticipate or more quickly than our own internet delivery offerings, or if other providers are better able to meet studio and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents if the popularity of the dvd format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. consumers have rapidly adopted the dvd format for viewing in-home filmed entertainment. while the growth of dvd sales has slowed, we believe that the dvd format, including any successor formats such as blu-ray, will be valuable long-term consumer propositions and studio profit centers. however, if dvd sales were to decrease, because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of dvd enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the dvd format. our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by future popularity of the dvd format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. likewise, if studios agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, in late 2006 and again in late 2007, blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which blockbuster would receive content on dvds for rental exclusively by blockbuster. to the extent this content is to be distributed exclusively to blockbuster and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content. to the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the first sale doctrine. nonetheless, it does impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created (such as an exclusive rental window), our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. we depend on studios to release titles on dvd for an exclusive time period following theatrical release. our ability to attract and retain subscribers is related to our ability to offer new releases of filmed entertainment on dvds prior to their release to other distribution channels. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a significant competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window for dvds. the window for dvd rental and retail sales is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies. our business could suffer increased competition if: the window for rental were no longer the first following the theatrical release; the length of this window was shortened; or the window was not exclusive as to other channels. the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel is determined solely by the studio releasing the title, and we cannot assure you that the studios will not change their policies in the future in a manner that would be adverse to our business and results of operations. currently, studios distribute their filmed entertainment content approximately three to six months after theatrical release to the home video market, four to seven months after theatrical release to pay-per-view and vod, one year after theatrical release to premium television and two to three years after theatrical release to basic cable and network television. over the past 11 table of contents several years, the major studios have shortened the release window on certain titles, in particular the theatrical to home video window. in addition, some studios have discussed eliminating the exclusive dvd release window on certain titles, in particular releasing movies simultaneously on dvd and vod. we depend on studios to license us content for internet delivery in order to operate our instant-watching feature. internet delivery of content involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we obtain when acquiring dvd content. our ability to provide our instant-watching feature therefore depends on studios licensing us content specifically for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary by studio. if the studios change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to provide us licenses, our ability to provide internet delivered content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, internet delivered content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such we are completely dependent on the studios providing us licenses in order to access and distribute internet delivered content. in addition, the studios have great flexibility in licensing content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver internet delivered content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros., and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional vod providers. this ability to carve-up distribution rights is unique to digital content. if we are unable to secure rights to content and to obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to operate our instant-watching feature will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber satisfaction with this feature will also be adversely impacted. we intend to rely on a number of partners to deliver our internet delivered content to various devices. we currently offer internet delivered content only to pcs. we intend to broaden the distribution capability of our instant-watching feature to other platforms and partners over time. in january 2008, we announced our development arrangement with lg electronics. while the terms of this arrangement have not been finalized, we anticipate developing, in conjunction with lg, a set-top box device that will enable our instant-watching feature to be viewed directly through subscribers televisions. we intend to enter other deals with additional partners for distribution of our content to various devices. if we are not successful in creating these relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments, our ability to grow our instant-watching feature could be adversely impacted. if we experience increased demand for titles which we are unable to offset with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be adversely affected. with our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies that subscribers may rent on dvd or, as we recently announced, watch through our instant-watching feature. we are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. such adjustments include new web site features and merchandising practices, computer-based instant watching of select titles through our instant-watching feature, an expanded dvd distribution network and software and process changes. in addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. if our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of any increased operating costs associated with increased usage, our operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be adversely affected if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. 12 table of contents if our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to acquire and deliver more frequently, our expenses may increase. certain titles cost us more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. if subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. in addition, films released on the new high definition dvd formats, blu-ray and hd dvd, and those released for internet delivery may be more expensive to acquire than in dvd format. the rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. if subscribers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing dvd format, our content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. the netflix brand is still developing, and we must continue to build strong brand identity. to succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of owners of dvd players who have traditionally relied on store-based rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service through our web site. in addition, we will have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours, such as blockbuster. we believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition, both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as vod. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation and delivery processing. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including third party banner ads, pop-under placements, direct links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. 13 table of contents if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations. if we are not able to refine or revise these legacy systems as we grow, if they fail or, if in responding to any other issues related to growth, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including our instant-watching feature, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including our instant-watching feature. our proprietary technology is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. we continually enhance or modify the software used for our distribution operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our proprietary technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of dvds among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, through our instant-watching feature, our subscribers will access titles on our web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. if this proprietary software fails to satisfactorily display the available titles, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers caused by the proprietary software could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on january 8, 2006 by 2 cents, from 37 cents to 39 cents, and then again in may 2007 by another 2 cents. the u.s. postal service has announced an increase in the rate for first class postage effective in may 2008 by one cent to 42 cents and it is also expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers recently given the u.s. postal service in connection with the postal reform legislation. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. for example, the office of inspector general at the u.s. postal service recently issued a report 14 table of contents recommending that the u.s. postal service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to dvds or to charge dvd mailers who don t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. we do not currently anticipate any material impact to our operational practices or postage delivery rates arising from this report. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. currently, most filmed entertainment is packaged on a single lightweight dvd. our delivery process is designed to accommodate the delivery of one dvd to fulfill a selection. because of the lightweight nature of a dvd, we generally mail one dvd per envelope using standard first class u.s. postage rates. studios occasionally provide additional content on a second dvd or may package a title on two dvds. in addition, the studios have begun to release certain films in high definition format on blu-ray and hd dvds. these new high definition format dvds appear to have higher damage rates than regular dvds. if packaging of filmed entertainment on multiple dvds were to become more prevalent, if the weight of dvds were to increase, or the durability of dvds deteriorate, our costs of delivery and fulfillment processing would increase and our costs of replacing damaged dvds may rise materially which would depress gross margins and profitability and adversely affect free cash flow. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. if our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient dvd titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient copies of dvds, either by not correctly anticipating demand or by intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand, we may not appropriately satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be adversely affected. conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be adversely affected. our ability to accurately predict subscriber demand as well as market factors such as exclusive distribution arrangements may impact our ability to acquire appropriate quantities of certain dvds. 15 table of contents if we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of purchasing titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be adversely affected. we acquire dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements as well as direct purchase arrangements. whether we enter into a direct purchase or revenue sharing arrangement depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. starting in 2000, we entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors which typically enabled us to increase our copy depth of dvds on an economical basis because of a low initial payment with additional payments made only if our subscribers rent the dvd. during the course of our revenue sharing relationships, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors may be adversely impacted. as the revenue sharing agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms or shift to direct purchasing arrangements, under which we must pay the full wholesale price regardless of whether the dvd is rented. we have seen the purchase mix shift toward direct purchasing arrangements as revenue sharing agreements expire. if we cannot renegotiate purchasing arrangements on favorable terms, the cost of acquiring content could increase and our gross margins may be adversely affected. in addition, the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase if we are required to directly purchase more titles. if the sales price of dvds to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the cost of manufacturing dvds is substantially less than the price for which new dvds are generally sold in the retail market. thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of dvds have significant flexibility in pricing dvds for retail sale. if the retail price of dvds decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase dvds instead of subscribing to our service. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any significant disruption in service on our web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. interruptions in these systems could make our web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. in addition, through our instant-watching feature, our subscribers access titles on our web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of our web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by 16 table of contents hackers to disrupt our web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. any significant disruption to our web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our web site and our internet-based delivery of content are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. problems faced by our third party web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the san francisco bay area. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations would be adversely affected. our executive offices and our sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the san francisco bay area. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations due to disruptions in service in the san francisco bay area or any other facility. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our sunnyvale-based operations center and the surrounding transportation infrastructure. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. the loss of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or chief marketing officer, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could harm our business and new service developments. we depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, barry mccarthy, our chief financial officer and leslie j. kilgore, our chief marketing officer. in addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. the loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our billing data were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. to secure transmission of confidential information obtained by us for billing purposes, including subscribers credit card data, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology. in conjunction with the payment processing companies, we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. these fees may increase in 2008. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. netflix is a registered trademark of netflix, inc. in the united states, canada, the united kingdom, japan and australia. we have also registered the netflix design logo and the service mark, friends, in the united states and have filed u.s. patent applications for certain aspects of our technology. we have also filed a trademark application in the european union for the netflix name. from time to time we expect to file additional trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent 18 table of contents use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. forecasting film revenue and associated gross profits from our films prior to release is extremely difficult and may result in significant write-offs. we are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from the associated films. the amount of film production costs that will be amortized each period depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each film. unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. if estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. in any given period, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual film, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, we base our estimates of revenue on performance of comparable titles and our knowledge of the industry. if the information is incorrect, the amount of revenue and related expenses that we recognize from our films could be wrong, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. 19 table of contents if we become subject to liability for content that we publish or distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a publisher of content, a host of third party content and a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. for example, our wholly-owned subsidiary, red envelope entertainment, llc, or ree, llc, which is dedicated to acquiring and funding original content productions, may be exposed to liability for copyright infringement and other claims relating to the original content. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are adequately insured to cover claims of these types or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. if government regulation of the internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the manner in which internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. in addition, if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, consumers may become unwilling to select their entertainment online or otherwise provide us with information necessary for them to become subscribers. further, we may not be able to effectively market our services online to users of the internet. if we are unable to interact with consumers because of changes in their attitude toward use of the internet, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and recently enacted rules promulgated by the securities and exchange commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to their requirements. 20 table of contents deterioration in the economy could impact our business. netflix is an entertainment service, and payment for our service may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential subscribers. to the extent the overall economy deteriorates, such as in the case of a recession, our business could be impacted as subscribers choose either to leave our service or reduce their service levels. also, our efforts to attract new subscribers may be adversely impacted. risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over netflix. as of december 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, jay hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 23% and reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 7%. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from other stockholders and will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; 21 table of contents competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. we record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. during the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 accounting for stock-based compensation ( sfas no. 123 ) for stock-based employee compensation. in addition, during the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. the vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four-year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. as a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expenses determined under sfas no. 123 are fully recognized in the same periods as the monthly stock option grants. our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $12.0 million, $12.7 million and $14.3 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we expect our stock-based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. the lattice-binomial model used by us requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option price volatility of the underlying stock. if facts and circumstances change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods, or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future period expenses may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect the fair value estimate of stock-based payments, our operating income, net income and net income per share. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of dvds shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. to minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. at december 31, 2007, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. the majority of the portfolio is invested in aaa rated residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. a hypothetical 1.00% (100 basis point) increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in the fair market value of our short-term investments of approximately $3.5 million.risk factors 8 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. we must continue to attract subscribers to our service. our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing valuable recommendations through our recommendation service. furthermore, the relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract subscribers. competitors include movie retail stores, dvd rental outlets and kiosk services, internet content providers online dvd subscription rental web sites and video package providers with pay per-view and vod content. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be adversely affected. if we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. we must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. deterioration in the economy could impact our business. netflix is an entertainment service, and payment for our service may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential subscribers. to the extent the overall economy continues to deteriorate, such as in the case of a prolonged recession, our business could be impacted as subscribers choose either to leave our service or reduce their service levels. also, efforts to attract new subscribers may be adversely impacted. if the market segment for online dvd rentals saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for online dvd rental has grown significantly since inception. some of the increasing growth can be attributed to changes in our service offering, especially the ability of our subscribers to stream movies and tv episodes on their tvs, pcs and macs. fluctuations in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online dvd rentals is beginning to saturate. while we believe that online dvd rentals will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. 8 table of contents if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for in-home entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies for delivery of in-home entertainment video, such as vod and internet delivery of content, continue to receive considerable media and investor attention. many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing, web site and systems development than we do. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. as a result of increased competition, we may see a reduction in operating margins and market share. if vod or other technologies are more widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery, our business could be adversely affected. some digital cable providers and internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as vod. this technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. in addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, particularly over the internet and on such devices as cell phones. although we are providing our own internet-based delivery of content, allowing our subscribers to stream certain movies and tv episodes, vod or other technologies may become more affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery that are widely supported by studios and distributors and adopted by consumers. if this happens more quickly than we anticipate or more quickly than our own internet delivery offerings, or if other providers are better able to meet studio and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. if the popularity of the dvd format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. while the growth of dvd sales has slowed, we believe that the dvd will be a valuable long-term consumer proposition and studio profit center. however, if dvd sales were to decrease, because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of dvd enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the dvd format. our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by the continued popularity of the dvd format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. likewise, if studios agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, in late 2006 and again in late 2007, blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which blockbuster would receive content on dvds for rental exclusively 9 table of contents by blockbuster. to the extent this content is to be distributed exclusively to blockbuster and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content. to the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the first sale doctrine. nonetheless, it does impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created (such as an exclusive rental window), our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. if studios were to offer new releases of entertainment video to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on dvd, our business could be adversely affected. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window on the dvd format. the window for new releases on dvd is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, internet-delivery, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies and the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the title. over the past several years, the major studios have shortened the release windows and several studios have released movies simultaneously on dvd and vod. if other distribution channels were to receive priority over, or parity with, dvd and such practices are widely adopted, our subscribers might find these other distribution channels of more value than our service and our business could be adversely affected. we depend on studios and distributors to license us content that we can stream instantly over the internet. streaming content over the internet involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we acquire when obtaining dvd content. our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly therefore depends on studios and distributors licensing us content specifically for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios and distributors change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to provide us licenses, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, streaming content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such, we are completely dependent on the studio or distributor providing us licenses in order to access and stream content. many of the licenses provide for the studios or distributor to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. for example, in december 2008, certain content associated with our license from the starz play service was withdrawn on short notice. in addition, the studios have great flexibility in licensing content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros. and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional vod providers. this ability to carve-up and maintain ongoing control over distribution rights, including the ability to withdraw content, is unique to streaming content. if we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream movies and tv episodes to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. during the course of our license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. we intend to engage a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their pcs, macs and other devices, including the xbox 360, internet connected blu-ray players from lg electronics and samsung, tivo 10 table of contents and the netflix player by roku. we intend to broaden our capability to instantly stream movies and tv episodes to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us. for example, while the pc and mac platforms constitute the largest number of devices used by our subscribers to enjoy streaming content, the agreement covering the next largest number of devices will expire in late 2009, unless the partner exercises its option to extend. if such agreement were to terminate, our subscriber acquisition and retention could be adversely impacted. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our watch instantly functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. if we experience increased demand for titles which we are unable to offset with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be adversely affected. with our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies and tv episodes that subscribers may rent on dvd or watch instantly. we are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. such adjustments include new web site features and merchandising practices, improvements in the technology that enable subscribers to instantly watch movies and tv episodes, an expanded dvd distribution network and software and process changes. in addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. if our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of any increased operating costs associated with increased usage, our operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be adversely affected if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. if our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to obtain and deliver more frequently, our expenses may increase. certain titles cost us more to purchase or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are obtained and the terms on which they are obtained. if subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. in addition, films released on blu-ray and those released for streaming may be more expensive to obtain than in the standard definition dvd format. the rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. if subscribers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing standard definition dvd format, our content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. to succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of subscribers who have relied on other rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our 11 table of contents service. in addition, we may have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours. we believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition, both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as vod. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation, delivery processing and service interruptions. furthermore, third party devices that enable instant streaming of movies and tv episodes from netflix may not meet consumer expectations. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. we also engage our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations. also, as we grow, we have implemented new systems and software to help run our operations. if we are not able to refine or revise our legacy systems or implement new systems and software as we grow, if they fail or, if in responding to any other issues related to growth, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including streaming of movies and tv episodes to our subscribers, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we use complex proprietary and other technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including streaming of movies and tv episodes to our subscribers. this 12 table of contents technology, including equipment and related software, is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our distribution operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of dvds among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, our subscribers may instantly watch movies and tv episodes but they must maintain their connection to our service for an uninterrupted viewing experience. if our software fails to satisfactorily display the available titles, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers or other devices caused by the proprietary software could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage and theft during our processing of shipments as well as during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage and theft rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on may 12, 2008 to 42 cents. the u.s. postal service has announced an increase in the rate for first class postage effective in may 2009 by 2 cents to 44 cents and it is also expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers given the u.s. postal service in connection with the 2007 postal reform legislation. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. for example, the office of inspector general at the u.s. postal service issued a report in november 2007 recommending that the u.s. postal service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to dvds or to charge dvd mailers who don t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. we do not anticipate any material impact to our operational practices or postage delivery rates arising from this report. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. studios have begun to release films in high definition format on blu-ray. this new high definition format dvd has higher damage rates than we currently experience with standard definition dvds. if we were to see a significant increase in the number of blu-ray dvds we ship or an increase in the percentage of blu-ray dvds our subscribers take and the damage rates remained higher than standard definition dvds, our gross margins, profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. if our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient dvd titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient copies of dvds, either by not correctly anticipating demand or by intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand, we may not appropriately satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be adversely affected. conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be adversely affected. our ability to accurately predict subscriber demand as well as market factors such as exclusive distribution arrangements may impact our ability to acquire appropriate quantities of certain dvds. if we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of obtaining titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be adversely affected. we obtain dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. the type of agreement depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. we have entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors which typically enabled us to increase our copy depth of dvds on an economical basis because of a low initial payment with additional payments made only if our subscribers rent the dvd. during the course of our revenue sharing relationships, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. as the revenue sharing agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms or shift to direct purchasing arrangements, under which we must pay the full wholesale price regardless of whether the dvd is rented. if we cannot renegotiate purchasing on favorable terms, the cost of obtaining content could increase and our gross margins may be adversely affected. in addition, the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase if we are required to directly purchase more titles. 14 table of contents if the sales price of dvds to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the cost of manufacturing dvds is substantially less than the price for which new dvds are generally sold in the retail market. thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of dvds have significant flexibility in pricing dvds for retail sale. if the retail price of dvds decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase dvds instead of subscribing to our service. any significant disruption in service on our web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. for example, in august 2008, we suffered a service interruption that impacted our ability to ship and receive dvds as well as stream movies to our subscribers. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of our web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. in certain instances, we have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. any significant disruption to our web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our web site and our streaming of content are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. problems faced by our third party web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. our executive offices and data center are located in the san francisco bay area. we have shipping centers located throughout the united states, including earthquake and hurricane-sensitive areas. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data center. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. 15 table of contents privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of or unauthorized access to subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if unauthorized access to our subscriber data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and mailing addresses. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing service, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory and streaming. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. 16 table of contents if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and from time to time we expect to file for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. 17 table of contents if we become subject to liability for content that we produce, publish or distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a producer, publisher and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we produce, publish or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are adequately insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change or if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the manner in which internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and recently enacted rules promulgated by the securities and exchange commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to their requirements. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. 18 table of contents risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over netflix. as of december 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, jay hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 20% and reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 6%. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from other stockholders and will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. 19 table of contents following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. we record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $12.3 million, $12.0 million and $12.7 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we expect our stock-based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. the lattice-binomial model used by us requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option price volatility of the underlying stock. if facts and circumstances change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods, or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future period expenses may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect the fair value estimate of stock-based payments, our operating income, net income and net income per share. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of dvds shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet. as a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from recent market liquidity and credit concerns. as of december 31, 2008, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2008, our cash 39 table of contents equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. approximately 60% of the portfolio is invested in government and agency issued securities. at december 31, 2008, we had securities classified as short-term investments of $157.4 million. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. due within one year $ 32,689 due within five years 118,127 due within ten years due after ten years 6,574 total $ 157,390 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2008. the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following tables present the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2008: fair value december 31, 2008 -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps 160,283 159,319 158,354 156,426 155,462 154,497risk factors 8 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. we must continue to attract subscribers to our service. our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning dvd and streaming titles, including providing valuable recommendations through our recommendation and merchandising technology. furthermore, the relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract subscribers. competitors include dvd rental outlets and kiosk services, video package providers with pay-per-view and vod content, online dvd subscription rental web sites, entertainment video retail stores and internet movie and tv content providers. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be adversely affected. if we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. we must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. deterioration in the economy could impact our business. netflix is an entertainment service, and payment for our service may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential subscribers. to the extent the overall economy continues to deteriorate, such as in the case of a prolonged recession, our business could be impacted as subscribers choose either to leave our service or reduce their service levels. also, efforts to attract new subscribers may be adversely impacted. if the market segment for online dvd rentals saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for online dvd rental has grown significantly since inception. some of the increasing growth can be attributed to changes in our service offering, especially the ability of our subscribers to stream movies and tv episodes on their tvs and computers. a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online dvd rentals is beginning to saturate. while we believe that online dvd rentals will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. 8 table of contents if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for in-home entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies for delivery of in-home entertainment video, such as vod and internet delivery of content, continue to receive considerable media and investor attention. many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing and web site and systems development than we do. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. as a result of increased competition, we may see a reduction in operating margins and market share. if vod or other technologies are more widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery, our business could be adversely affected. some digital cable providers and internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as vod. this technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. in addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, particularly over the internet and on devices such as cell phones. although we are providing our own internet-based delivery of content, allowing our subscribers to stream certain movies and tv episodes, vod or other technologies may become more affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery that are widely supported by studios and distributors and adopted by consumers. if this happens more quickly than we anticipate or more quickly than our own internet delivery offerings, or if other providers are better able to meet studio and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. if the popularity of the dvd format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. while the growth of dvd sales has slowed, we believe that the dvd will be a valuable long-term consumer proposition and studio profit center. however, if dvd sales were to decrease, because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of dvd enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the dvd format. our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by the continued popularity of the dvd format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. likewise, if studios agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, some studios have expressed a desire to delay the availability of new release dvds for rental for a brief period of time following the dvds release to the retail 9 table of contents market and, in connection therewith, would prohibit certain of their wholesalers from selling to various rental outlets, such as us and redbox. in fact, universal studios and twentieth century fox are engaged in litigation brought by redbox over this practice. furthermore, certain content owners, from time to time, have established exclusive rental windows with particular outlets. this happened in late 2006 and again in late 2007 when blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which blockbuster would receive content on dvds for rental exclusively by blockbuster. to the extent content is to be distributed exclusively and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content. to the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the first sale doctrine. nonetheless, to the extent content owners do not distribute to us directly or through their wholesalers or otherwise establish exclusive rental windows, it will impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created, our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. delayed availability of new release dvds for rental could adversely affect our business. we recently entered into a licensing agreement with warner bros. whereby we agreed not to rent new release warner bros. dvds until twenty-eight days after such dvds are first made available for retail sale. we believe that this agreement, and perhaps others like it, will provide us with less expensive content as well as deeper copy depth, thus improving both our business and consumer experience. nonetheless, it is possible that the delay in obtaining new release content both from warner bros. and any other suppliers that may adopt similar licensing strategies could impact consumer perception of our service or otherwise negatively impact subscriber satisfaction. if this were to happen, our business could be adversely impacted. if studios were to offer new releases of entertainment video to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on dvd, our business could be adversely affected. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window on the dvd format. the window for new releases on dvd is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, internet delivery, premium tv, basic cable and network and syndicated tv. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies and the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the title. over the past several years, the major studios have shortened the release windows and several studios have released movies simultaneously on dvd and vod. if other distribution channels were to receive priority over, or parity with, dvd and such practices are widely adopted, our subscribers might find these other distribution channels of more value than our service and our business could be adversely affected. we depend on studios and distributors to license us content that we can stream instantly over the internet. streaming content over the internet involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we acquire when obtaining dvd content. our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly therefore depends on studios and distributors licensing us content specifically for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios and distributors change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to provide us licenses, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, streaming content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such, we are completely dependent on the studio or distributor providing us licenses in order to access and stream content. many of the licenses provide for the studios or distributor to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. for example, in december 2008, certain content associated with our license from the starz play service was withdrawn on short notice. in addition, the studios have great 10 table of contents flexibility in licensing content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros. and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional vod providers. if we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream movies and tv episodes to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. during the course of our license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. we rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their pcs, macs and other devices, including internet-connected blu-ray players and tvs, digital video players and game consoles. we intend to broaden our capability to instantly stream movies and tv episodes to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. if we experience increased demand for titles which we are unable to offset with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be adversely affected. with our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies and tv episodes that subscribers may rent on dvd or watch instantly. we are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber content usage. such adjustments include new web site features and merchandising practices, improvements in the technology that enable subscribers to instantly watch movies and tv episodes, an expanded dvd distribution network and software and process changes. in addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer content watching. if our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of any increased operating costs associated with increased usage, our operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be adversely affected if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. if our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to obtain and deliver more frequently, our expenses may increase. certain titles cost us more to purchase or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from which they are obtained and the terms on which they are obtained. if subscribers select these titles 11 table of contents more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. in addition, films released on blu-ray and those released for streaming may be more expensive to obtain than in the standard definition dvd format. the rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. if subscribers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing standard definition dvd format, our content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. to succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of subscribers who have relied on other rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service. in addition, we may have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours. we believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition, both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as vod. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation, delivery processing and service interruptions. furthermore, third party devices that enable instant streaming of movies and tv episodes from netflix may not meet consumer expectations. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. we also engage our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including tv and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. 12 table of contents if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations. also, as we grow, we have implemented new systems and software to help run our operations. if we are not able to refine or revise our legacy systems or implement new systems and software as we grow, if they fail or, if in responding to any other issues related to growth, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including streaming of movies and tv episodes to our subscribers, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we use complex proprietary and other technology to process deliveries and returns of our dvds and to manage other aspects of our operations, including streaming of movies and tv episodes to our subscribers. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our distribution operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of dvds among our shipping centers or the streaming of movies and tv episodes to our subscribers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage and theft during our processing of shipments as well as during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage and theft rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on may 12, 2008 to 42 cents and again in may 2009 to 44 cents. it is expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers given the u.s. postal service in connection with the 2007 postal reform legislation. however, in october 2009, the u.s. postal service announced that it would not raise rates in 2010. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. for example, the office of inspector general ( oig ) at the u.s. postal service issued a report in november 2007 recommending that the u.s. postal service revise the machinability qualifications for 13 table of contents first class mail related to dvds or to charge dvd mailers who don t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. in addition, a by-mail game rental company filed a complaint with the postal regulatory commission alleging that the u.s. postal service unreasonably discriminated against it in favor of netflix and blockbuster. to the extent this proceeding was to result in operational or regulatory changes impacting our mail processing, our gross margins and business operations could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate any material impact to our operational practices or postage delivery rates arising from the oig report or the proceeding. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. studios also release films in high definition format on blu-ray. this high definition format dvd has higher damage rates than we currently experience with standard definition dvds. if we were to see a significant increase in the number of blu-ray dvds we ship or an increase in the percentage of blu-ray dvds our subscribers take and the damage rates remained higher than standard definition dvds, our gross margins, profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology, our business may suffer. our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation and merchandising technology to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure that our recommendation and merchandising technology will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient dvd titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be adversely affected. if we do not acquire sufficient copies of dvds, either by not correctly anticipating demand or by intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand, we may not appropriately satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be adversely affected. conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be adversely affected. our ability to accurately predict subscriber demand as well as market factors such as exclusive distribution arrangements may impact our ability to acquire appropriate quantities of certain dvds. 14 table of contents if we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of obtaining titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be adversely affected. we obtain dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. the type of agreement depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. we have entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors which typically enabled us to increase our copy depth of dvds on an economical basis because of a low initial payment with additional payments made only if our subscribers rent the dvd. during the course of our revenue sharing relationships, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. as the revenue sharing agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms or shift to direct purchasing arrangements, under which we must pay the full wholesale price regardless of whether the dvd is rented. if we cannot renegotiate purchasing on favorable terms, the cost of obtaining content could increase and our gross margins may be adversely affected. in addition, the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase if we are required to directly purchase more titles. if the sales price of dvds to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the cost of manufacturing dvds is substantially less than the price for which new dvds are generally sold in the retail market. thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of dvds have significant flexibility in pricing dvds for retail sale. if the retail price of dvds decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase dvds instead of subscribing to our service. any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site or a netflix ready device. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, including discriminatory network management practices, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to fulfill dvd selections or deliver streaming content. for example, in august 2008, we suffered a service interruption that impacted our ability to ship and receive dvds as well as stream movies to our subscribers. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. in certain instances, we have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 15 table of contents we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. we recently have begun utilizing third-party internet-based or cloud computing systems in connection with our business operations. also, we utilize third-party content delivery networks to help us stream movies and tv episodes in high volume to netflix subscribers over the internet. fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. in addition, problems faced by our third party web hosting, cloud computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. our executive offices and data centers are located in the san francisco bay area. we have shipping centers located throughout the united states, including earthquake and hurricane-sensitive areas. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data centers. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of or unauthorized access to subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendations, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if unauthorized access to our subscriber data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and mailing addresses. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing service, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when 16 table of contents the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory and streaming. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and from time to time we expect to file for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant 17 table of contents resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site or our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. if we become subject to liability for content that we distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are adequately insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change or if consumer attitudes toward use of the internet change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the manner in which internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. 18 table of contents we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and recently enacted rules promulgated by the securities and exchange commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to their requirements. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we issued $200 million in a debt offering and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2009, we have $200 million in 8.50% senior notes outstanding. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet certain covenants. the failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties including guarantees; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; 19 table of contents enter into certain asset sale transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses. any failure to comply with the restrictions of any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over netflix. as of december 31, 2009, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, jay hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 14% and reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 6%. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from other stockholders and will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; 20 table of contents announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. we record substantial stock compensation expenses related to our issuance of stock options and shares under our employee share purchase program that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $12.6 million, $12.3 million and $12.0 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we expect our stock-based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. the lattice-binomial model used to value our stock option grants and the black-scholes models used to value shares granted under our employee share purchase program both require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock. if facts and circumstances change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods, or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future period expenses may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect the fair value estimate of stock-based payments, our operating income, net income and net income per share. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of dvds shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2009, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2009, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. approximately 52% of the portfolio is invested in government and agency issued securities. at december 31, 2009, we had securities classified as short-term investments of $186.0 million. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) due within one year $ 44,455 due within five years 137,763 due within ten years due after ten years 3,800 total $ 186,018 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2009. the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. 42 table of contents the following tables present the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2009: fair value december 31, 2009 -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $ 190,243 $ 188,835 $ 187,426 $ 184,610 $ 183,201 $ 181,793risk factors 4 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain subscribers are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant subscriber growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers. competitors include mvpds with free tv everywhere and vod content, internet movie and tv content providers, including both those that provide legal and illegal (or pirated) entertainment video content, entertainment video retail stores and dvd rental outlets and kiosk services. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new or adjust existing services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is limited, dvd delivery takes too long, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies and evolving business models for delivery of entertainment video continue to develop at a fast pace. the growth of internet-connected devices, including television sets, blu-ray players and mobile devices has increased the consumer acceptance of internet delivery of entertainment video. through these new and existing distribution channels, consumers are afforded various means for consuming entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these differing means of entertainment video delivery include subscription, pay-per-view, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. several competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment, and marketing. new entrants may enter the market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video and other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. 4 table of contents changes in consumer viewing habits, including more widespread usage of tv everywhere, vod or other similar on demand methods of entertainment video consumption could adversely affect our business. the manner in which consumers view entertainment video is changing rapidly. digital cable, wireless and internet content providers are continuing to improve technologies, content offerings, user interface, and business models that allow consumers to access entertainment video on demand with interactive capabilities including start, stop and rewind. the devices through which entertainment video can be consumed are also changing rapidly. today, content from cable service providers may be viewed on laptops and content from internet content providers may be viewed on televisions. although we provide our own internet-based delivery of content allowing our subscribers to stream certain tv shows and movies to their internet-connected televisions and other devices, if other providers of entertainment video address the changes in consumer viewing habits in a manner that is better able to meet content distributor and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we have expanded rapidly since we launched our web site in april 1998. we are currently engaged in an effort to expand our operations internationally, grow our streaming service with new content and across more devices, as well as continue to operate our dvd service within the united states. many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations and solely focused on domestic dvd operations. as we undertake all these changes, if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our legacy systems and operational practices, our business may be adversely affected. if the market segment for consumer paid commercial free internet streaming of tv shows and movies saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for consumer paid commercial free internet streaming of tv shows and movies has grown significantly. much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our subscribers to stream tv shows and movies on their tvs, computers and mobile devices. a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate. while we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. we believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting subscribers who may have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our title availability, inventory allocation, delivery processing and service interruptions. furthermore, third-party devices that enable instant streaming of tv shows and movies from netflix may not meet consumer expectations. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. with respect to our planned international expansion, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets would be adversely impacted. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links 5 table of contents and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. we also engage our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including tv and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the increasingly long-term and fixed-cost nature of our content acquisition licenses may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. in connection with obtaining content, particularly for streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year, fixed-fee licenses with studios and other distributors. as of december 31, 2010, we had over $1.2 billion in such contractual commitments covering payments due over the next several years. furthermore, we plan on increasing the level of committed content licensing in anticipation of our service and subscriber base continuing to grow. to the extent subscriber and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of these content licensing commitments and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate could be limited. if we become subject to liability for content that we distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. if studios and other content distributors refuse to license streaming content to us upon acceptable terms, our business could be adversely affected. streaming content over the internet involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we acquire when obtaining dvd content. our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly therefore depends on studios and other content distributors licensing us content specifically 6 table of contents for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios and other content distributors change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to license us content, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, streaming content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such, we are completely dependent on the studio or other content distributor to license us content in order to access and stream content. many of the licenses provide for the studios or other content distributor to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. in addition, the studios and other content distributors have great flexibility in licensing content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros. and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional vod providers. if we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream tv shows and movies to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. as streaming content license agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms which may not be favorable to us. if this happens, the cost of obtaining content could increase and our margins may be adversely affected. as we grow, we are able to spend an increasingly larger amount for the licensing of streaming content. we believe that the streaming content we make available to our subscribers is sufficiently diversified, such that we will not be forced to pay licensing fees for content in excess of our desired operational margins. we believe that any failure to secure content will manifest in lower subscriber acquisition and retention and not in materially reduced margins. nonetheless, given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed nature of content licenses, if we do not experience subscriber acquisition and retention as forecasted, our margins may be impacted by these fixed content licensing costs. during the course of our license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and other content distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. we rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their pcs, macs and other internet-connected devices, including blu-ray players and tvs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. if the popularity of the dvd format continues to slow or if the retail sales prices of dvds decline, our business could be adversely affected. although the growth of dvd sales continues to slow, we believe that the dvd will continue to be a valuable consumer proposition and studio profit center for the next several years. as dvd sales begin to decline, studios and other resellers may significantly lower prices to encourage consumers to continue to utilize the format. unless we are successful at retaining our subscribers with our streaming offerings, a decline in the 7 table of contents popularity of the dvd as indicated by declining sales or a reduction in price leading to consumers purchasing instead of using our service, could result in our business could be adversely affected. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. by way of example, the court of appeals for the 9 th circuit recently ruled that the first sale doctrine did not apply to sales of software that contained contractual limitations on resales. to the extent such a ruling were extended to dvd sales, our ability to obtain content for subsequent rental could be adversely impacted. likewise, if content providers agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, we have entered into agreements with several studios to delay the availability of new release dvds for rental for a brief period of time following the dvds release to the retail market and, in connection therewith, these studios have prohibited certain of their wholesalers from selling dvds to us prior to such availability. furthermore, certain content owners, from time to time, have established exclusive rental windows with particular outlets. this happened in late 2006 and again in late 2007 when blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which blockbuster would receive content on dvds for rental exclusively by blockbuster. to the extent content is to be distributed exclusively and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content, and those or our competitors who access such content could enjoy a corresponding competitive advantage. to the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, under current law, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the first sale doctrine. nonetheless, to the extent content owners do not distribute to us directly or through their wholesalers or otherwise establish exclusive rental windows, it will impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created, our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. increased availability of new releases of entertainment video to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on dvd, coupled with delayed availability of such dvds through our service, could adversely affect our business. except for theatrical release, dvds currently enjoy a competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and vod, because of the early distribution window on the dvd format. the window for new releases on dvd is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, internet delivery, premium tv, basic cable and network and syndicated tv. the length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies and the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the title. over the past several years, the major studios have shortened the release windows and have increasingly made new release movies available simultaneously on dvd and vod. if other distribution channels were to receive priority over, or parity with, dvd, coupled with delayed availability of such dvd through our service, our subscribers might find these other distribution channels of more value than our service and our business could be adversely affected. delayed availability of new release dvds for rental could adversely affect our business. our licensing agreements with several studios require that we do not rent new release dvds until some period of time, typically twenty-eight days- after such dvds are first made available for retail sale. these 8 table of contents agreements provide us with less expensive content as well as deeper copy depth than we might otherwise have absent the delay, thus improving both our business and consumer experience. while several competitors have used the delayed availability of dvd content through our service to differentiate their own services, we do not believe that this delayed availability has materially impacted our subscriber growth or satisfaction. nonetheless, it is possible that the delay in obtaining new release content could impact consumer perception of our service or otherwise negatively impact subscriber satisfaction. furthermore, if the studios were to increase the period of delay, which some studios have suggested, we may yet experience these impacts, in which case our business could be adversely impacted. we could be subject to increased costs arising from our acquisition of dvd content and our subscribers demand for dvd titles that could adversely affect our operations and financial performance we obtain dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. the type of agreement we utilize to acquire dvd content depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. if we are unable to negotiate favorable terms to acquire the dvds our operating margins may be adversely affected. furthermore, during the course of our agreements, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. direct purchase of dvds requires us to be able to accurately forecast demand in order to ensure that we have enough copies of a title to satisfy but not exceed demand so that our subscriber satisfaction is not negatively impacted. however, if we purchase excess copies of title or experience an increase in usage of a title without a corresponding increase in subscriber retention and growth, our content and fulfillment costs will increase disproportionately to revenues thus adversely affecting our operating results. our content costs as a percentage of revenues can also increase if our subscribers select titles that were acquired under more expensive revenue share arrangements more often than they select other titles acquired through direct purchase or lower cost revenue share arrangements. any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site or their tvs, computers or mobile devices. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, including discriminatory network management practices, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. from time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers and those of third-parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party internet-based or cloud computing 9 table of contents services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix subscribers over the internet. problems faced by our third-party web hosting, cloud computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. in addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services, or aws, provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a cloud computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the majority of our computing at aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon may compete with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology, our business may suffer. our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we believe that in order for our recommendation and merchandising technology to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. we cannot assure that our recommendation and merchandising technology will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. we are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream tv shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, including processing delivery and return of our dvds to our subscribers, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be 10 table of contents of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of tv shows and movies to our subscribers in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of dvds among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, if our technology or that of third-parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage and theft during our processing of shipments as well as during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage and theft rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect our gross profit. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on may 12, 2008 to 42 cents and again on may 11, 2009 to 44 cents. it is expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers given the u.s. postal service in connection with the 2007 postal reform legislation. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. for example, the office of inspector general ( oig ) at the u.s. postal service issued a report in november 2007 recommending that the u.s. postal service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to dvds or to charge dvd mailers who don t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. in addition, a by-mail game rental company filed a complaint with the postal regulatory commission alleging that the u.s. postal service unreasonably discriminated against it in favor of netflix and blockbuster. to the extent this proceeding was to result in operational or regulatory changes impacting our mail processing, our gross margins and business operations could be adversely affected. also, if the u.s. postal service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver dvds could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. 11 table of contents the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. for example, in late 2010, the federal communications commission adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. the rules are likely to be subject to interpretation and legal challenge. to the extent, that these rules are interpreted to enable network operators to engage in discriminatory practices or are overturned by legal challenge, our business could be adversely impacted. as we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our subscriber acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. for example, in late 2010, comcast informed level 3 communications that it would require level 3 to pay for the ability to access comcast network. given that much of the traffic being requested by comcast customers is netflix data stored with level 3, many commentators have looked to this situation as an example of comcast either discriminating against netflix traffic or trying to increase netflix operating costs. furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, companies like comcast, time warner cable and cablevision have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours, our business could be negatively impacted. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of or unauthorized access to subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our subscribers, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if unauthorized access to our subscriber data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and, in many cases, mailing addresses. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and 12 table of contents authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory and streaming. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third- parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and from time to time we expect to file for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third-parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third-parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. 13 table of contents intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third-parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third-parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third-parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. our executive offices and data centers are located in the san francisco bay area. we have shipping centers located throughout the united states, including earthquake and hurricane-sensitive areas. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data centers. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. 14 table of contents most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. in september 2010, we began international operations by offering an unlimited streaming plan without dvds in canada and we anticipate further international expansion. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from and incremental to those in the united states. in addition to the risks that we face in the united states our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; new and different sources of competition; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we issued $200 million in a debt offering and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2010, we have $200 million in 8.50% senior notes outstanding. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; 15 table of contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet certain covenants. the failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third-parties including guarantees; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; enter into certain asset sale transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses. any failure to comply with the restrictions of any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. risks related to our stock ownership our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise control over netflix. as of december 31, 2010, our executive officers and directors and their immediate family members beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. in particular, reed hastings, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board, beneficially owned approximately 5%. these stockholders may have individual interests that are different from other stockholders and will be able to exercise influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; 16 table of contents provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded since our may 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of net additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2010, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2010, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. at december 31, 2010, we had securities classified as short-term investments of $155.9 million. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) due within one year $ 18,966 due within five years 134,014 due within ten years due after ten years 2,908 total $ 155,888 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2010. the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. 37 table of contents the following table presents the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2010: fair value december 31, 2010 -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $159,307 $ 158,167 $ 157,028 $ 154,749 $ 153,609 $ 152,469risk factors 4 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain subscribers are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant subscriber growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers. competitors include mvpds with free tv everywhere and vod content, internet movie and tv content providers, including both those that provide legal and illegal (or pirated) entertainment video content, dvd rental outlets and kiosk services and entertainment video retail stores. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new or adjust existing services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. in addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers. if our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is limited, dvd delivery takes too long, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. if too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. new technologies and evolving business models for delivery of entertainment video continue to develop at a fast pace. the growth of internet-connected devices, including tvs, computers and mobile devices has increased the consumer acceptance of internet delivery of entertainment video. through these new and existing distribution channels, consumers are afforded various means for consuming entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these differing means of entertainment video delivery include subscription, pay-per-view, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. several competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment, and marketing. new entrants may enter the market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video and other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. 4 table of contents if we are unable to continue to recover from the negative consumer reaction to our price change and other announcements made during the third quarter of 2011, our business will be adversely affected. in the third quarter of 2011, we made a series of announcements regarding our business, including the separation of our unlimited dvd-by-mail and unlimited streaming plans with a corresponding price change for some of our customers, the rebranding of our dvd-by-mail service, and the subsequent retraction of our plans to rebrand our dvd-by-mail service. consumers reacted negatively to these announcements, adversely impacting our brand and resulting in higher than expected customer cancellations. these adverse effects, coupled with the increasingly long-term and fixed-cost nature of our content acquisition licenses, will likely continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. while we have seen a return to growth in our core domestic streaming segment, we believe the process of repairing our brand will take time. if we are unable to continue to repair the damage to our brand, our results of operations, including cash flow, will be adversely affected. changes in consumer viewing habits, including more widespread usage of tv everywhere, vod or other similar on demand methods of entertainment video consumption could adversely affect our business. the manner in which consumers view entertainment video is changing rapidly. digital cable, wireless and internet content providers are continuing to improve technologies, content offerings, user interface, and business models that allow consumers to access entertainment video-on-demand with interactive capabilities including start, stop and rewind. the devices through which entertainment video can be consumed are also changing rapidly. today, content from cable service providers may be viewed on laptops and content from internet content providers may be viewed on tvs. although we provide our own internet-based delivery of content allowing our subscribers to stream certain tv shows and movies to their internet-connected televisions and other devices, if other providers of entertainment video address the changes in consumer viewing habits in a manner that is better able to meet content distributor and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. if we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are currently engaged in an effort to expand our operations internationally, grow our streaming service with new content and across more devices, as well as continue to operate our dvd service within the united states. many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations and we are undertaking efforts to migrate the vast majority of our systems (other than dvd-related) to cloud-based processors. as we undertake all these changes, if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices, our business may be adversely affected. if the market segment for consumer paid commercial free internet streaming of tv shows and movies saturates, our business will be adversely affected. the market segment for consumer paid commercial free internet streaming of tv shows and movies has grown significantly. much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our subscribers to stream tv shows and movies on their tvs, computers and mobile devices. a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate. while we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. if our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. we believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting subscribers who may have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. 5 table of contents if our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. from time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our title availability, inventory allocation, delivery processing and service interruptions. furthermore, third-party devices that enable instant streaming of tv shows and movies from netflix may not meet consumer expectations. to the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. with respect to our planned international expansion, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets would be adversely impacted. if we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. we obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. we also engage our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. in addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including tv and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. we also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. we maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. we opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. if we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. if companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels. in addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our marketing costs. laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. we may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. the increasingly long-term and fixed-cost nature of our content acquisition licenses may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. in connection with obtaining content, particularly for streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year, fixed-fee licenses with studios and other distributors. such contractual commitments are detailed in the contractual obligations section of item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . furthermore, we plan on increasing the level of committed content licensing in anticipation of our service and subscriber base growing. to the extent subscriber and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of these content licensing commitments and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate could be limited. 6 table of contents if we become subject to liability for content that we distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. we also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. if we become liable, then our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. we cannot assure that we are insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. if studios and other content distributors refuse to license streaming content to us upon acceptable terms, our business could be adversely affected. streaming content over the internet involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we acquire when obtaining dvd content. our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly therefore depends on studios and other content distributors licensing us content specifically for internet delivery. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios and other content distributors change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to license us content, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. unlike dvd, streaming content is not subject to the first sale doctrine. as such, we are completely dependent on the studio or other content distributor to license us content in order to access and stream content. many of the licenses provide for the studios or other content distributor to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. in addition, the studios and other content distributors have great flexibility in licensing content. they may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. for example, hbo licenses content from studios like warner bros. and the license provides hbo with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including netflix. as such, netflix cannot license certain warner bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while warner bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional vod providers. if we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream tv shows and movies to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. as streaming content license agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms which may not be favorable to us. if this happens, the cost of obtaining content could increase and our margins may be adversely affected. as we grow, we are able to spend an increasingly larger amount for the licensing of streaming content. we believe that the streaming content we make available to our subscribers is sufficiently diversified, such that we will not be forced to pay licensing fees for content in excess of our desired contribution profit targets. we believe that any failure to secure content will manifest in lower subscriber acquisition and retention and not in materially reduced margins. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed nature of content licenses, if we do not experience subscriber acquisition and retention as forecasted, our margins may be impacted by these fixed content licensing costs. for example, as a result of events over the past several months, we have experienced slower growth than anticipated and our margins have been negatively impacted. during the course of our license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and other content distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. we rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from netflix to various devices. we currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their pcs, macs and other internet-connected devices, including blu-ray players and tvs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are 7 table of contents typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. if subscriptions to our domestic dvd segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected the number of subscriptions to our dvd-by-mail offering declined significantly following our price change. we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. in addition, we believe that dvd will be a valuable consumer proposition and studio profit center for the next several years, even as dvd sales decline. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. because we are primarily focused on building a global streaming service, the resources allocated to maintaining dvd operations and the level of management focus on our dvd business are limited. to the extent that we experience degradation in service in our dvd-by-mail business, subscribers satisfaction with our service could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. if u.s. copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the first sale doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on dvd in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the effects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. under u.s. copyright law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. while the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. as such, once a dvd is sold into the market, those obtaining the dvd are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. if congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this first sale doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. by way of example, the court of appeals for the 9th circuit has ruled that the first sale doctrine did not apply to sales of software that contained contractual limitations on resales. to the extent such a ruling were extended to dvd sales, our ability to obtain content for subsequent rental could be adversely impacted. likewise, if content providers agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the effects of the first sale doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. for example, we have entered into agreements with several studios to delay the availability of new release dvds for rental for a period of time following the dvds release to the retail market and, in connection therewith, these studios have prohibited certain of their wholesalers from selling dvds to us prior to such availability. furthermore, certain content owners, from time to time, have established exclusive rental windows with particular outlets. this happened in late 2006 and again in late 2007 when blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which blockbuster would receive content on dvds for rental exclusively by blockbuster. to the extent content is to be distributed exclusively and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content, and those of our competitors who access such content could enjoy a corresponding competitive advantage. to the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, under current law, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the first sale doctrine. nonetheless, to the extent content owners do not distribute to us directly or through their wholesalers or otherwise establish exclusive rental windows, it will impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in 8 table of contents sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. if such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created, our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. increased availability of new releases to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on dvd, coupled with delayed availability of such dvds through our service, could adversely affect our business. dvds currently enjoy a competitive advantage over certain other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and some types of vod distribution, because of the early distribution window on the dvd format. the window for new releases on dvd is generally exclusive against and earlier than certain other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, regular ( non-premium ) vod, svod, premium pay tv, and other forms of tv exploitation. the length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the title. over the past several years, we have seen distributors adjust and experiment with the traditional distribution channels and timing. for example, certain other forms of non-theatrical distribution have been developed for certain new movie releases, resulting in their non-theatrical availability prior to and during the dvd window. in addition, the major studios have shortened certain release windows and/or have increasingly made new release movies available on vod simultaneously or prior to the release on dvd e.g. via premium vod , and in a limited number of instances, simultaneously with theatrical release. if other distribution channels were to receive priority over, or parity with, the dvd window, coupled with delayed availability of such dvd through our service, subscriber perception of value in our service could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. further, as these distribution channels shift, our relative position to them, either in dvd or streaming, may impact our subscribers perception of or value in our service and our business could be adversely affected. delayed availability of new release dvds for rental could adversely affect our business. our licensing agreements with several studios require that we do not rent new release dvds until some period of time after such dvds are first made available for retail sale. these agreements provide us with less expensive content as well as deeper copy depth than we might otherwise have absent the delay, thus improving both our business and consumer experience. while several competitors have used the delayed availability of dvd content through our service to differentiate their own services, we do not believe that this delayed availability has materially impacted our subscriber growth or satisfaction. nonetheless, it is possible that the delay in obtaining new release content could impact consumer perception of our service or otherwise negatively impact subscriber satisfaction. furthermore, in january 2012, warner home entertainment announced it was increasing the period of delay to fifty-six days. if other studios were to increase the period of delay and /or if our subscriber satisfaction is negatively impacted by this increase in the warner delay, our business could be adversely impacted. we could be subject to increased costs arising from our acquisition of dvd content and our subscribers demand for dvd titles that could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. we obtain dvds through a mix of revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. the type of agreement we utilize to acquire dvd content depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. if we are unable to negotiate favorable terms to acquire the dvds, our contribution profits may be adversely affected. furthermore, during the course of our agreements, various contract administration issues can arise. to the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. direct purchase of dvds requires us to be able to accurately forecast demand in order to ensure that we have enough copies of a title to satisfy but not exceed demand so that our subscriber satisfaction is not negatively impacted. however, if we purchase excess copies of title or experience an increase in usage of a title without a corresponding increase in subscriber retention and growth, our content and fulfillment costs will increase disproportionately to revenues thus adversely affecting our operating results. our content costs as a percentage of revenues can also increase if our 9 table of contents subscribers select titles that were acquired under more expensive revenue share arrangements more often than they select other titles acquired through direct purchase or lower cost revenue share arrangements. any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our web site or their tvs, computers, game consoles or mobile devices. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, including discriminatory network management practices, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. from time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. our servers and those of third-parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. our web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. our insurance does not cover expenses related to attacks on our web site or internal systems. efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party internet-based or cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix subscribers over the internet. problems faced by our third-party web hosting, cloud computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. in addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. as we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services, or aws, provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a cloud computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon may compete with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. 10 table of contents if we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase subscriber engagement with our service, our business may suffer. our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. we also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase subscriber engagement with our service. we are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our tv show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our subscribers. we may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. in addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our subscribers. such failures could lead to the following: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. we rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream tv shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, including processing delivery and return of our dvds to our subscribers, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. we continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. we cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. if we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of tv shows and movies to our subscribers in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of dvds among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. in addition, if our technology or that of third-parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the u.s. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. we rely exclusively on the u.s. postal service to deliver dvds from our shipping centers and to return dvds to us from our subscribers. we are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. our dvds are also subject to risks of breakage and theft during our processing of shipments as well as during delivery and handling by the u.s. postal service. the risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our dvds. if the entities replicating our dvds use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver dvds to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, increased breakage and theft rates for our dvds will increase our cost of acquiring titles. 11 table of contents increases in the cost of delivering dvds could adversely affect the contribution profit of our domestic dvd segment. increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our domestic dvd segment contribution profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. the u.s. postal service increased the rate for first class postage on may 12, 2008 to 42 cents, on may 11, 2009 to 44 cents and again on january 22, 2012 to 45 cents. it is expected that the u.s. postal service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers given the u.s. postal service in connection with the 2007 postal reform legislation. the u.s. postal service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. if the u.s. postal service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our dvd envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our dvds, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. for example, the office of inspector general ( oig ) at the u.s. postal service issued a report in november 2007 recommending that the u.s. postal service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to dvds or to charge dvd mailers who don t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. in addition, a by-mail game rental company filed a complaint with the postal regulatory commission alleging that the u.s. postal service unreasonably discriminated against it in favor of netflix and blockbuster. to the extent this proceeding was to result in operational or regulatory changes impacting our mail processing, our domestic dvd segment contribution profit and business operations could be adversely affected. for example, the u.s. postal service recently announced changes to its service that would close many of its mail processing facilities and eliminate next day service for first class mail. if such changes result in slower delivery of our dvds or otherwise lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. for example, in late 2010, the federal communications commission adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. the rules are currently subject to legal challenge. to the extent that these rules are interpreted to enable network operators to engage in discriminatory practices or are overturned by legal challenge, our business could be adversely impacted. as we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our subscriber acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. for example, in late 2010, comcast informed level 3 communications that it would require level 3 to pay for the ability to access comcast network. given that much of the traffic being requested by comcast customers is netflix data stored with level 3, many 12 table of contents commentators have looked to this situation as an example of comcast either discriminating against netflix traffic or trying to increase netflix operating costs. furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, companies like comcast, time warner cable and cablevision have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours, our business could be negatively impacted. in international markets, especially in latin america, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of or unauthorized access to subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our subscribers, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if unauthorized access to our subscriber data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and, in many cases, mailing addresses. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. if, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. in addition, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. from time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our web site to obtain service and access our dvd inventory and streaming. typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. while we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. we do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. a failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. 13 table of contents increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. from time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. these rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third-parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and from time to time we expect to file for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third-parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third-parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third-parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third-parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. 14 table of contents if we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. the acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. the regulation of domain names in the united states may change in the near future. governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. as a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third-parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. in the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. our executive offices and data centers are located in the san francisco bay area. we have shipping centers located throughout the united states, including earthquake and hurricane-sensitive areas. our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. we may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. because the san francisco bay area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data centers. we are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. we offer an unlimited streaming plan in canada, latin america and beginning in early 2012 we expanded our streaming service offering to the uk and ireland. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from and incremental to those in the united states. in addition to the risks that we face in the united states our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; 15 table of contents difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as credit and debit cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage of internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we raised $400 million of additional capital through the sale of $200 million worth of convertible notes in a private placement and $200 million worth of equity through a public offering. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have issued $400 million in debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. as of december 31, 2011, we have $200 million in 8.50% senior notes and $200 million in zero coupon senior convertible notes outstanding. risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. in addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. 16 table of contents the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet certain covenants. the failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third-parties including guarantees; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; enter into certain asset sale transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. these covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses. any failure to comply with the restrictions of any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 17 table of contents our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid subscriber additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents 39 table of contents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2011, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2011, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage-backed securities. as of december 31, 2011, we had securities classified as short-term investments of $289.8 million. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) due within one year $ 108,382 due within five years 180,373 due within ten years due after ten years 1,003 total $ 289,758 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2011. the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2011: fair value december 31, 2011 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $295,788 $ 293,778 $ 291,768 $ 287,747 $ 285,737 $ 283,727risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd rental outlets. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. if we do not grow as expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments are included in the contractual obligations section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 5, commitments and contingencies in item 8 . given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be 3 table of contents adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service ( original programming ), will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. if we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse domestic or international tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the united states, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; 4 table of contents profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. if we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. with newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these new markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as facebook and twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. if companies that promote our service decide that we negatively impact their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to such marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our web site such as member reviews. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and 5 table of contents damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain rights to music interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. we intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our device partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. 6 table of contents our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, "cloud" computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ("aws") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ("isps") do not interconnect with our cdn, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. certain laws 7 table of contents intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including the united states and the european union. in others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. in some international markets, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. for these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data occur, our business could be adversely affected. 8 table of contents we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. 9 table of contents we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. as of december 31, 2016, we had $3.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding ( notes ). as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $6.5 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. for more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see note 5, commitments and contingencies. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our notes and our other obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including our notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes and obligations such as our streaming content obligations. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. in the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations or other obligations then due. if we are unable to service our debt obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt obligations prior to maturity. our ability to refinance or restructure our debt will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. 10 table of contents we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if our domestic dvd segment declines faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund our growth internationally. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. if the u.s. postal service were to increase postal delivery rates or implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; 11 table of contents the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. financial forecasting may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our investments, debt and foreign currency fluctuations. interest rate risk the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. to achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. we maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , we had no impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio. although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. at december 31, 2016 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. our short-term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset backed securities. changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of the securities we hold that are classified as short-term investments. the table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates as of december 31, 2016 . (in thousands) due within one year $ 61,833 due after one year and through 5 years 204,373 total $ 266,206 a sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2016 . the analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. this methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our debt securities classified as short-term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps and 150 bps. the analysis is shown as of december 31, 2016 : fair value as of december 31, 2016 (in thousands) -150 bps -100 bps -50 bps +50 bps +100 bps +150 bps $ 271,745 $ 270,151 $ 268,180 $ 264,234 $ 262,261 $ 260,289 30 table of contents based on investment positions as of december 31, 2016 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $3.9 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. as of december 31, 2015 , a similar 100 basis point increase in the yield curve would have resulted in a $6.6 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. such losses would only be realized if the company sold the investments prior to maturity. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $3.4 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in five tranches. refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. foreign currency risk international revenues and cost of revenues account for 36% and 48% , respectively, of consolidated amounts for the year ended december 31, 2016 . the majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $174.4 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended december 31, 2015 . we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2016 , we recognized a $22.8 million foreign exchange gain which resulted primarily from the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies. we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.risk factors 3 risk factors if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business if our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. we have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years. our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing tv shows and movies. furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships. competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as mvpds, internet-based movie and tv content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and dvd retailers. if consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members. in addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members. if our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. we must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. if we do not grow as expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected. further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members. changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. the market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video. the various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. all of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market. piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free. furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings. several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. they may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. new entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video. companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. if we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers. we also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these production such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. the payment terms of these agreements are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base ( fixed cost ) but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the contractual obligations section of part ii, 3 table of contents item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content. to the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. in addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. if we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. we face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. as a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. we also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials. we are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including tv series and movies. we believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. to the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. as we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. we also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions. to the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such merchandise. we may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members or could be damaging to our brand. to the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. we may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. if studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. if the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. as competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. as we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. we are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. if we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. music and certain authors' performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. in this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations ( cmos ) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. if we are unable to reach 4 table of contents mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain cmos and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with cmos, or result in music publishers represented by certain cmos unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. if we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. we are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our dvd service within the u.s. as our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. as we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. as we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance, licensing, merchandising and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. if we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. we could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the u.s. in addition to the risks that we face in the u.s., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; 5 table of contents different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. we are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. while we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. the u.s. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. in addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. if u.s. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. we believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. to the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. to the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations. furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. with newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted. changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. we utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service to potential new members. we may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. if the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. for example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels. we also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. if we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. 6 table of contents we utilize marketing to promote our content and drive viewing by our members. to the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. we rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. we currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including tvs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. we have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. in many instances, our agreements also including provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service. we intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream tv shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. if we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted. our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. in addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. if partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. these systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill dvd selections. service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks, both from state-sponsored and individual activity, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. these systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data or intellectual property. any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. we have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. from time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets, however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service or systems. there is no assurance that hackers may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future. our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. we utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. in addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. we also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream tv shows and movies in high volume to netflix members over the internet. problems faced by us or our third-party web hosting, cloud computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. 7 table of contents we rely upon amazon web services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the amazon web services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. amazon web services ( aws ) provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. we have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by aws. currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on aws. given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our aws operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of aws would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. while the retail side of amazon competes with us, we do not believe that amazon will use the aws operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. if the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. we utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. this includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. for example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network ( cdn ). to the extent internet service providers ( isps ) do not interconnect with our cdn, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. we also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of bugs in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. as our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. in addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the european union. in others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the united states where net neutrality regulations were recently repealed. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. we rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. if network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. to the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. 8 table of contents most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. as such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. while we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. the extent to which these incentives limit operator behavior differ across markets. privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. we currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. we maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. this data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. with respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as aws, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. in the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. the costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. we also maintain employment and personal information concerning our employees, including those on our own productions. should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. we are subject to payment processing risk. our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. we rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. to the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. in certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf. if these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention. in addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. 9 table of contents if our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. we may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. we have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. if the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. we currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including netflix.com. failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our web site and our service. we may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our our web site. we use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. from time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. we have not searched patents relative to our technology. defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. it also may result in our inability to use our current web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. we may also have to remove content from our service. as a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. these actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. we are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. from time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. as we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. these matters have included copyright and other claims related to our content, patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. we may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. from time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last three years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service. to the extent our cash flows from 10 table of contents operations continue to be negative, we anticipate seeking additional capital. the decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $6.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding ( notes ). in addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , we have not borrowed any amount under this revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $7.5 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. for more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see note 5, commitments and contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this annual report on form 10-k. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our notes and our other obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. our streaming obligations include large multi-year commitments. as a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. this could result in our needing to access the capital markets at an unfavorable time, which may negatively impact our stock price we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations. our ability to make payments on our debt, including our notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. in each of the last three years, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. we may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations. if we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. if our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. if our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such 11 table of contents alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. if it becomes necessary to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and co-founder reed hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. if our domestic dvd segment declines faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. the number of memberships to our dvd-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. we believe, however, that the domestic dvd business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. the contribution profit generated by our domestic dvd business will help provide capital resources to fund growth or our streaming service. to the extent that the rate of decline in our dvd-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. we do not anticipate increasing resources to our dvd operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. to the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our dvd-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in dvd-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. if the u.s. postal service were to increase postal delivery rates or implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our domestic dvd segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. risks related to our stock ownership provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. in addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our amended and restated executive severance and retention incentive plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. our stock price is volatile. the price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. the price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; 12 table of contents competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. we may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. this type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results. given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, operating margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. in addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. we base such estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates. for example, we estimate the period of use, beginning with the month of first availability, of any particular licensed or produced television series or movie based upon factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns in order to amortize these content assets. if we revise such estimates it could reduce the amortization period or result in impairment charges for the relevant content assets resulting in greater in-period expenses, which could cause us to miss our earnings guidance or negatively impact the results we report which could negatively impact our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our debt and foreign currency fluctuations. in july 2017, we sold all short-term investments. interest rate risk at december 31, 2017 , our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $6.6 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in seven tranches due between 2021 and 2028. refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. the fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. the fair value of our debt will also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency rates, as discussed below. foreign currency risk international revenues and cost of revenues account for 44% and 54% , respectively, of consolidated amounts for the year ended december 31, 2017 . the majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the australian dollar, the japanese yen and the brazilian real. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our international streaming segment as expressed in u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $21.9 million lower had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended december 31, 2016 . we have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. in the year ended december 31, 2017 , we recognized a $127.9 million foreign exchange loss which resulted primarily from the remeasurement of our 1,300.0 million senior notes and was partially offset by the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of our european and u.s. entities. in addition, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents in the year ended december 31, 2017 was an increase of $29.8 million . we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. the volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.