quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk......................................40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of investments resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange and/or equity prices. management is responsible for managing this risk. our risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. we are exposed to changes in interest rates mainly through our debt transactions and portfolio debt holdings available-for-sale, which are carried at fair value in our financial statements. as of september 30, 2002, a significant percentage of our outstanding debt is at fixed interest rates. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources. in addition, we have considered the potential impact of the effect on the banking/finance operating segment, our outstanding debt and portfolio debt holdings, individually and collectively, of a 100 basis point (1%) movement in market interest rates. we do not expect this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in either scenario. we are also exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio. we operate mainly in the united states, but also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south america, africa and australia. a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses, however, are denominated in u.s. dollars. therefore, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our revenues and expenses is not material at this time. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. 40 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of investments resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange and/or equity prices. management is responsible for managing this risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through financing transactions and portfolio debt holdings available-for-sale, which are carried at fair value in our financial statements. as of september 30, 2003, a significant percentage of our outstanding debt was at fixed interest rates. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources. in addition, as of september 30, 2003, we have considered the potential impact of the effect on the banking/finance operating segment balances, our outstanding debt and portfolio debt holdings, individually and collectively, of a 100 basis point (1%) movement in market interest rates. we do not expect this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in either scenario. we operate primarily in the united states, but also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south america, africa and australia. a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses, however, are denominated in u.s. dollars. therefore, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our revenues and expenses is not material at this time. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. we are also exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio. 44quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.................................................... 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of investments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange and/or equity prices. management is responsible for managing this risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. 51 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- our banking/finance operating segment is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its loans receivable, debt securities held, and deposit liabilities. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources. in addition, as of september 30, 2004, we have considered the potential impact of the effect on the banking/finance operating segment balances, individually and collectively, of a 100 basis point (1%) movement in market interest rates. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in either scenario. our investment management operating segment is exposed to changes in interest rates through its investment in debt securities and its outstanding debt. we minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. our exposure to interest rate changes related to our debt issuances is not material since a significant percentage of our outstanding debt is at fixed interest rates. we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our foreign operations. we operate primarily in the united states, but also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south america, africa and australia. our exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimized since a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. we are exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that are carried at fair value and through investments held by majority-owned sponsored investment products that we consolidate. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio. our exposure to equity price fluctuations is also minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions. 52 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------risk factors 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57risk factors 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58risk factors 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59risk factors 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60risk factors 18 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management ( aum ), revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors globally through products that include investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our sponsored investment products or sips ). the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity and debt markets may 18 table of contents be adversely affected by economic, political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity or debt marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks (such as the crisis in ukraine), the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past and could in the future cause the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. the funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such market events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. we may, at our discretion, provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular investment products also could cause sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of management fees we earn based on our aum. we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and away from equity and hybrid products, and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity and certain hybrid products than from fixed-income products we manage. further, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate the interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environment in which we operate. our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing number of rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including those with respect to securities and other financial instruments, advisory, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs administered by the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions where our investment management services and products are offered, and escheatment laws and regulations. we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the new york stock exchange. certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority, the commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ), the national futures association, the department of treasury and the department of labor ( dol ). given our global operations, we are also subject to the securities and other laws of various non-u.s. jurisdictions and to regulation by non-u.s. regulators including, among others, the u.k. financial conduct authority, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier, the monetary authority of singapore, the australian securities and investments commission, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the securities and exchange board of india and various international stock exchanges. in some cases, our non-u.s. operations may also be subject to regulation by u.s. regulators, such as the department of justice, the cftc and the sec (for example, with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977). we are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, the cftc and/or licensed by various non-u.s. regulators. in addition, many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940 (the investment company act ) or authorized by various european and other non-u.s. regulators pursuant to the european union's ( eu ) undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) directive, or authorized under other non-u.s. laws in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada and latin 19 table of contents america. these registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes. financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) authorized the establishment of the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to u.s. financial stability. similarly, the u.s. and other members of the g-20 group of nations have empowered the financial stability board ( fsb ) to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. the fsoc may designate certain non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. the fsb may designate certain non-bank financial companies as global systemically important financial institutions ( g-sifis ); the additional regulatory requirements triggered by any such designation are not yet established. the fsoc and the fsb, as well as other global regulators, are considering what threats to u.s. and global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as sifis or g-sifis and/or subjecting them to additional regulation. to the extent that we or any of our funds are designated as a sifi or g-sifi, such regulation, which could include requirements related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, could impact our business. the dodd-frank act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. we continue to analyze the impact of the dodd-frank act as implementing rules are adopted and become effective. under the dodd-frank act, which imposes a number of new regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility, and the posting of collateral will be required for uncleared swaps. the eu is in the process of implementing similar requirements, and there is some risk that full mutual recognition may not be achieved between the u.s. and eu regimes, and duplication of regulation and transaction costs may result. these and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. also, the sec has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds. overall, we expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs. our subsidiary fiduciary trust company international ( fiduciary trust ) and its subsidiaries remain subject to additional regulation, supervision and examination by their respective regulators. certain federal and state anti-takeover laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of franklin, and gain indirect control of fiduciary trust or its subsidiaries, without prior regulatory approval. such federal and state laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of franklin, including through transactions that some shareholders might consider desirable. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with the bank secrecy act, anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, and economic, trade and other sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. any inability to meet these requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. 20 table of contents u.s. and international regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the dodd-frank act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. similarly, the securities and related laws outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive ( aifmd ) and markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ). moreover, the adoption of new laws or regulations and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected, and may continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. in particular, certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and mifid ii still require the adoption of implementing rules. we may be required to invest significant additional management time and resources to address the new regulations being adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act, mifid ii and other laws. in addition, the sec has proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the non-u.s. jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. the regulatory environments of the non-u.s. jurisdictions where we conduct our business or where the funds and products we manage are organized or sold are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our non-u.s. jurisdictions could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. in recent years, the non-u.s. regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products and services in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology to, among other things, support our operations, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the products we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures, data or privacy breaches, or other security breaches (including any cyber security breaches) in these and other processes 21 table of contents could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, the technology systems we use may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including phishing attacks attempting to get clients to provide confidential information) or an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system failures or breach of the technology systems we use, and the costs necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs; the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information; loss of valuable information; breach of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the failure or breach; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; reputational harm; regulatory actions; and/or legal claims, liability and litigation costs resulting from the incident. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact our business. in addition, the failure to properly manage and operate the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products, which could adversely affect our business. our business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our aum, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to our sips. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. in addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with the sips we advise. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated or significantly altered. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell investment funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may also vary widely, or be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance 22 table of contents with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize investment products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have included extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or our joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, our joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability for us or harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. laws and regulations, including those contained in or relating to the eu ' capital requirements directive, those adopted under the aifmd, those required to be adopted under the dodd-frank act and certain provisions of the eu ' ucits v directive, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. for example, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of low-fee passive products such as index and certain exchange-traded funds, it may favor our competitors who provide those products over active managers like us. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sips that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec may establish different standards for broker/dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. higher distribution costs lower our 23 table of contents income; consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. the dol has proposed a rule that would subject financial professionals that provide advice to retirement clients to a fiduciary duty, which could limit their ability to provide advice about funds for which they receive a fee from the fund or its affiliates. if adopted as proposed, this rule could have an impact on our ability to compensate financial intermediaries who sell our funds to their retirement clients. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands, sweden and the eu in mifid ii have adopted regimes which ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with such distributors may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum, income and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected and may in the future affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. appreciation of the u.s. dollar has and could continue to moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. as our business continues to grow in non-u.s. markets, any ongoing and future business, political, economic or social unrest affecting these markets (such as the crisis in ukraine), in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. harm to our reputation or poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is also critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past and could in the future lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause us to lose current clients and we may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational 24 table of contents harm or poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation or performance and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses and merit increases, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; and/or changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully manage and grow our business can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology systems we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations, or governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, we may be named in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and standard form of director indemnification agreement we are obligated under certain conditions, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our financial results. judgments, findings or allegations of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in litigation against us or settlements with respect thereto could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. 25 table of contents our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain funds and financing, or access the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of equity markets. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions which may limit their ability to transfer funds to their parent companies and/or our ability to repatriate funds to the u.s. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of consolidated sips and consolidated vies is limited to that of our direct investments in, and/or investment management fees earned from, these entities. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of our consolidated sips and consolidated vies are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the market value of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2015 would have resulted in an annualized increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $484.6 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sips that invest in debt securities, which were $1,531.8 million at september 30, 2015 . our exposure to interest rate risks from investments in sips is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the sips. the investment mandates of the remaining sips consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2015 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2015 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sips that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in the next twelve months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, canada, asia-pacific, the bahamas and latin america. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the euro, indian rupee, pound sterling and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for 8% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2015 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation 53 table of contents of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 5% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2015 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2015 would result in a $73.4 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a $47.4 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2015 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from trading investment securities and direct investments in consolidated sips and consolidated vies would result in a $156.7 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. the changes from available-for-sale investment securities would not result in a change to other-than-temporary impairment charges that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease investment securities, trading $ 1,251.2 $ 1,376.3 $ 1,126.1 investment securities, available-for-sale 446.4 491.0 401.8 direct investments in consolidated sips and consolidated vies 316.3 347.9 284.7 total $ 2,013.9 $ 2,215.2 $ 1,812.6 54 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management ( aum ), revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors globally through products that include investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our sponsored investment products or sips ). the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the nature of the sips managed. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity, debt and commodity markets may be adversely affected by financial, economic, political, diplomatic or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity, debt or commodity marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks, the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past and could in the future cause the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. the funds we manage may be subject to liquidity risks or an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of the events or conditions described above, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit, to obtain cash to maintain sufficient liquidity or settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. we have in the past, and may in the future, at our discretion, provide financial support to funds we manage to enable them to maintain sufficient liquidity in any such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular investment products have in the past and could in the future cause sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of management fees we earn based on our aum. we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed income products and away from equity and hybrid products, and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity and certain hybrid products than from fixed income products we manage. further, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate the 19 table of contents interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate. as described below, our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing number of rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including those with respect to securities and other financial instruments, investment and advisory matters, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs, and escheatment laws and regulations. as a u.s. reporting company, we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the new york stock exchange. as a global investment management organization, certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority, the u.s. commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ), the national futures association, the u.s. department of treasury and the u.s. department of labor ( dol ). given our global operations, we are also subject to securities laws and other laws of various non-u.s. jurisdictions and to regulation by non-u.s. regulators including, among others, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) financial conduct authority, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier, the canadian securities administrators, the monetary authority of singapore, the australian securities and investments commission, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the securities and exchange board of india, the japanese financial services agency and various international stock exchanges. in some cases, our non-u.s. operations may also be subject to regulation by u.s. regulators, such as the department of justice, the cftc and the sec (for example, with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977). we are also subject not only to the sanctions programs administered by the u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control, but also to sanctions programs adopted and administered by non-u.s. jurisdictions where our investment management services and products are offered. further, we are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, the cftc and/or licensed by various non-u.s. regulators. in addition, many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940 (the investment company act ) or authorized by various european and other non-u.s. regulators pursuant to the european union's ( eu ) undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) directive, or authorized under other non-u.s. laws in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada and latin america. these registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes. financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) authorized the establishment of the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to u.s. financial stability. similarly, the u.s. and other members of the g-20 group of nations have empowered the financial stability board ( fsb ) to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. the fsoc may designate certain non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. the fsb may designate certain non-bank financial companies as global systemically important financial institutions ( g-sifis ); the additional regulatory requirements triggered by any such designation are not yet established. the fsoc and the fsb, as well as other global regulators, are considering what threats to u.s. and global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as sifis or 20 table of contents g-sifis and/or subjecting them to additional regulation. to the extent that we or any of our funds are designated as a sifi or g-sifi, such regulation, which could include requirements related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, could impact our business. the dodd-frank act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. we continue to analyze the impact of the dodd-frank act as implementing rules are adopted and become effective. under the dodd-frank act, which imposes a number of new regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility, and the posting of collateral will be required for uncleared swaps. the eu and other countries are in the process of implementing similar requirements, and there is some risk that full mutual recognition may not be achieved between the various regimes, and duplication of regulation and transaction costs may result. these and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. in addition, the sec has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and has also proposed other rules that (i) would require certain registered funds to adopt liquidity management programs, and (ii) would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. we expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs. our subsidiary fiduciary trust company international ( fiduciary trust ) and its subsidiaries remain subject to additional regulation, supervision and examination by their respective regulators. certain federal and state anti-takeover laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of franklin resources, inc. ( franklin ), and gain indirect control of fiduciary trust or its subsidiaries, without prior regulatory approval. such federal and state laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of franklin, including through transactions that some shareholders might consider desirable. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with the bank secrecy act of 1970, anti-money laundering and know your customer requirements, and economic, trade and other sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. any inability to meet these requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. global regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the dodd-frank act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. similarly, the securities and related laws outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive ( aifmd ) and markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ). further, in june 2016, a narrow majority of voters in a u.k. referendum voted to exit the eu ( brexit ), but it is still unclear exactly what will be the u.k.'s status in relation to the eu when it ultimately leaves. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. moreover, the adoption of new laws, regulations or standards and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations or standards have directly affected, and will continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. in particular, certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and mifid ii still require the adoption of implementing rules. we may be required to invest significant additional management time and resources to address the new regulations being adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act, mifid ii and other laws. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the organization for economic co-operation and development has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries ( crs ), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence 21 table of contents country pay required taxes. in many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new rules. crs will be implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. crs may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required, and will continue to require, us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any further regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the investment management industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. the regulatory environments of the jurisdictions where we conduct our business or where our sips are organized or sold are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our jurisdictions could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. in recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products and services in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, and are subject to ongoing tax audits, in various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and could have a significant impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could disrupt our business and harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the continuity and effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology to, among other things, support our business continuity and operations, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the products we manage. any disruptions, inaccuracies, delays, systems failures, data or privacy breaches, or other security breaches (including any cyber security breaches) in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses and damage our reputation. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, the technology systems we use may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including phishing attacks attempting to obtain confidential information) or an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system disruptions, failures or breaches of the technology systems we use, and the costs necessary to address them, could result in: material financial loss or costs; the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information; loss of valuable information; breach of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair 22 table of contents damage caused by the failure or breach; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; reputational harm; regulatory actions; and/or legal claims, liability and litigation costs resulting from the incident. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact our business. in addition, the failure to properly manage and operate the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and our competitors may from time to time implement more advanced technology platforms for their products, which could adversely affect our business. our business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our aum, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to our sips. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. in addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with our sips. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated or significantly altered. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell our sips and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may also vary widely, or be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize investment products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have included extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. in addition, from time to time we 23 table of contents enter into international joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or our joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, our joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability for us or harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. laws and regulations, including those contained in or relating to the eu ' capital requirements directive, those adopted under the aifmd, those required to be adopted under the dodd-frank act and certain provisions of the eu ' ucits v directive, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. there is no assurance that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors, as well as with real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and other products. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. further, although we may offer certain types of strategic beta and actively managed exchange-traded funds, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of lower-fee passive products such as index and other types of exchange-traded funds, it may favor our competitors who provide those products over active managers like us. additionally, competing securities broker-dealers, whom we rely upon to distribute and sell certain of our funds and other investment products, may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our sips, offering a mix of sips that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec may establish different standards for broker-dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. in addition, the sec has proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our u.s.-registered funds. higher distribution costs lower our income; consolidations in the broker-dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. in april 2016, the dol issued a new fiduciary rule that will subject financial professionals who provide investment advice to certain u.s. retirement clients to a new fiduciary duty intended to address conflicts of interests. we believe that the rule could significantly impact the ability of financial professionals to provide investment advice and recommendations for retirement accounts about funds for which they receive a fee from the fund or its affiliates. this rule may impact the compensation paid to the financial intermediaries who sell our funds to their retirement 24 table of contents clients and may negatively impact our business. implementation of the rule will be phased in beginning in april 2017, and will generally become fully effective in january 2018. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands, sweden and the eu in mifid ii have adopted regimes which ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers in those jurisdictions, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with such distributors may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum, income and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected and may in the future affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. appreciation of the u.s. dollar has and could continue to moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain of our sips invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, downturns in international markets have in the past and could in the future have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from financial, economic, political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. as our business continues to grow in non-u.s. markets, any ongoing and future business, economic, political or social unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. harm to our reputation or poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, our sips or our sips may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of our aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is also critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past and could in the future lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. there is no assurance that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause us to lose current clients and we may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm or poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation or performance and our future business prospects would likely be affected. 25 table of contents our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, merit increases and severance costs, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; and/or changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully manage and grow our business can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology systems we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities and infrastructure, and the proper functioning of our technology, computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations that are critical to our business. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with an advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters; political, economic or infrastructure instabilities; information, technology or security limitations or breaches; or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies. we may also become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations, or governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, we may be named as a party in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and standard form of director indemnification agreement we are obligated under certain conditions, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and/or negatively impact our profitability and financial results. judgments, findings or allegations of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in litigation against us or settlements with respect thereto, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. 26 table of contents our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain cash, financing or access to the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and may have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and/or the valuation levels of equity markets. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to fund our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions which may limit their ability to transfer assets to their parent companies and/or our ability to repatriate assets to the u.s. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute assets to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of consolidated sips and consolidated vies is limited to that of our direct investments in, and/or investment management fees earned from, these entities. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of our consolidated sips and consolidated vies are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the market value of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2016 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $406.3 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sips that invest in debt securities, which were $1,241.9 million at september 30, 2016 . our exposure to interest rate risks from investments in sips is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the sips. the investment mandates of the remaining sips consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2016 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2016 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sips that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next twelve months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, canada, asia-pacific, the bahamas and latin america. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the indian rupee, euro, canadian dollar and pound sterling. these assets accounted for 8% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2016 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 5% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2016 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 55 table of contents a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2016 would result in a $78.2 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a $41.4 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2016 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from trading investment securities and direct investments in consolidated sips and consolidated vies would result in a $153.6 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. the changes from available-for-sale investment securities would not result in a change to other-than-temporary impairment charges that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease investment securities, trading $ 1,121.9 $ 1,234.1 $ 1,009.7 investment securities, available-for-sale 301.4 331.5 271.3 direct investments in consolidated sips and consolidated vies 413.7 455.1 372.3 total $ 1,837.0 $ 2,020.7 $ 1,653.3 56 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets may from time to time experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management ( aum ), revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors globally through products that include investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our sponsored investment products or sips ). the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the nature of the sips managed. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity, debt and commodity markets may be adversely affected by financial, economic, political, electoral, diplomatic or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity, debt or commodity marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks, the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past and could in the future cause the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. the funds we manage may be subject to liquidity risks or an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of the events or conditions described above, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit, to obtain cash to maintain sufficient liquidity or settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. we have in the past, and may in the future, at our discretion, provide financial support to funds we manage to enable them to maintain sufficient liquidity in any such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular investment products have in the past and could in the future cause sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of management fees we earn based on our aum. we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed income products and away from equity and multi-asset/balanced products, and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity and certain multi-asset/balanced products than from fixed income products we manage. further, changing market conditions and investor preferences also may cause a shift in our asset mix towards lower fee exchange traded funds. increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate the interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate. as described below, our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate. our regulatory and compliance obligations impose significant operational and cost burdens on us and cover a broad range of requirements related to securities 19 table of contents and other financial instruments, investment and advisory matters, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs, and escheatment laws and regulations. as a u.s. reporting company, we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the new york stock exchange. as a global investment management organization, certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority, the u.s. commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ), the national futures association, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) and the u.s. department of treasury. given our global operations, we are also subject to securities laws and other laws of various non-u.s. jurisdictions and to regulation by non-u.s. regulators including, among others, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) financial conduct authority, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier, the canadian provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, the monetary authority of singapore, the australian securities and investments commission, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the securities and exchange board of india, the japanese financial services agency and various international stock exchanges. in some cases, our non-u.s. operations may also be subject to regulation by u.s. regulators, such as the sec, the cftc and the doj (for example, with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977). we are also subject not only to the sanctions programs administered by the u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control, but also to sanctions programs adopted and administered by non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the european union ( eu ), where our investment management services and products are offered. we are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property. further, certain federal and state anti-takeover or business combination laws may impose various disclosure and procedural requirements on the ability of a person to acquire control of us, which may discourage potential merger and acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control, including through transactions that some stockholders may consider desirable. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, the cftc and/or licensed by various non-u.s. regulators. in addition, many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940 (the investment company act ) or authorized by various european and other non-u.s. regulators pursuant to the eu's undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) directive or under other non-u.s. laws in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada and latin america. these registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes. financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. political and electoral changes, developments and conflicts may also introduce additional uncertainty. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) authorized the establishment of the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to u.s. financial stability. similarly, the u.s. and other members of the g-20 group of nations have empowered the financial stability board ( fsb ) to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. the fsoc may designate certain non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. the fsb may designate certain non-bank financial companies as global systemically important financial institutions ( g-sifis ); the additional regulatory requirements triggered by any such designation are not yet established. the fsoc and the fsb, as well as other global regulators including the european commission, are considering what threats to u.s., eu and global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as sifis or g-sifis and/or subjecting them to additional regulation. to the extent that we or any of our funds are designated as a sifi or g-sifi, such regulation, which could include requirements related to risk- 20 table of contents based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, could impact our business. the dodd-frank act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. we continue to analyze the impact of the dodd-frank act as implementing rules are adopted and become effective. under the dodd-frank act, which imposes a number of regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility. the eu and other countries are in the process of implementing similar requirements, and there is some risk that full mutual recognition may not be achieved between the various regimes, and duplication of regulation and transaction costs may result. these and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. in addition, the sec has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and that will require certain registered funds to adopt liquidity management programs. (full compliance with the latter is required by december 1, 2018.) the sec has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. we expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with the bank secrecy act of 1970, anti-money laundering and know your customer requirements, and economic, trade and other sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. any inability to meet these requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. global regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the dodd-frank act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. similarly, the securities and related laws outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive ( aifmd ) and markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ). although negotiations between the u.k. and eu regarding the u.k.'s proposed withdrawal from the eu ( brexit ) began in june 2017, it is still unclear what terms may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. moreover, the adoption of new laws, regulations or standards and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations or standards have directly affected, and will continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. in particular, certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and mifid ii still require the adoption of implementing rules. we may be required to invest significant additional management time and resources to address the new regulations being adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act, mifid ii and other laws. for example, mifid ii requires the unbundling of research and execution charges for trading. the final rules in this area, and the industry's response to them, are still evolving and could lead to increased research costs. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. effective may 2018, the eu's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) will strengthen and unify data protection rules for individuals within the eu. gdpr also addresses export of personal data outside the eu. the primary objectives of gdpr are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation within the eu. compliance with the stringent rules under gdpr will require an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of annual global revenues, whichever is higher. further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the organization for economic co-operation and development has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries ( crs ), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence 21 table of contents country pay required taxes. in many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new crs rules. crs will be implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. crs may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required, and will continue to require, us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any further regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the investment management industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. the regulatory environments of the jurisdictions where we conduct our business or where our sips are organized or sold are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our jurisdictions could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. in recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products and services in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, and are subject to ongoing tax audits, in various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and could have a significant impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could disrupt our business and harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the continuity and effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology to, among other things, support our business continuity and operations, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the products we manage. any disruptions, inaccuracies, delays, systems failures, data or privacy breaches, or other security breaches (including any cyber security breaches) in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses and damage our reputation. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, the technology systems we use are vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including phishing attacks attempting to obtain confidential information) or an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system disruptions, failures or breaches of the technology systems we use, and the costs necessary to address them, could result in: material financial loss or costs; the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information; loss of valuable information; breach of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair 22 table of contents damage caused by the failure or breach; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; reputational harm; regulatory actions; and/or legal claims, liability and litigation costs resulting from the incident. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact our business. also, our third-party applications may include confidential and proprietary data provided by vendors and by us. we may be subject to indemnification costs and liability to third parties if we breach any confidentiality obligations regarding vendor data, for losses related to the data, or if data we provide is deemed to infringe upon the rights of others. in addition, the failure to properly manage and operate the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and our competitors may from time to time implement more advanced technology platforms for their products and services, including digital advisors and other advanced electronic systems, which could adversely affect our business if we are unable to remain competitive. our business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our aum, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to our sips. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and other services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. many of our operations are complex and dependent on our ability to effectively process and monitor a large number of transactions, many of which may occur across numerous markets and currencies at high volumes and frequencies. although we expend considerable resources on internal controls, supervision, technology and training in an effort to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable guidelines, rules and regulations or adversely affect our clients, counterparties or us, our operations are ultimately dependent on our employees who may, from time to time, make mistakes that are not always immediately detected, which may disrupt our operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or sanctions, or otherwise damage our reputation. in addition, any misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could also adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with our sips. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated or significantly altered. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell our sips and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may also vary widely, or be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance 23 table of contents with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize investment products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have included extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or our joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, our joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability for us or harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. laws and regulations, including those contained in or relating to the eu ' capital requirements directive, those adopted under aifmd and ucits and those required to be adopted under the dodd-frank act, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. there is no assurance that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors, as well as with real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and other products. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. further, although we may offer certain types of exchange-traded funds, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of lower fee index and other exchange-traded funds, it may favor our competitors who may offer such products that are more established or on a larger scale than we do. additionally, competing securities broker-dealers, whom we rely upon to distribute and sell certain of our funds and other investment products, may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our sips, offering a mix of sips that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec may establish different standards for broker-dealers in their interaction 24 table of contents with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. in addition, the sec has proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our u.s.-registered funds. higher distribution costs lower our income; consolidations in the broker-dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. in april 2016, the dol issued a new fiduciary rule that will subject financial professionals who provide investment advice to certain u.s. retirement clients to a new fiduciary duty intended to address conflicts of interests. we believe that the rule could significantly impact the ability of financial professionals to provide investment advice and recommendations for retirement accounts about funds for which they receive a fee from the fund or its affiliates. this rule may impact the compensation paid to the financial intermediaries who sell our funds to their retirement clients and may negatively impact our business. certain aspects of the rule became applicable in june 2017, while other aspects of the rule are not expected to become applicable until january 1, 2018, subject to any further regulatory update. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands and the eu in mifid ii have adopted regimes which ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers in those jurisdictions, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules related to the requirement that commissions reflect an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. the interpretation of the inducements rules has also resulted in major changes to how fund managers finance investment research with many firms, including ours, opting to pay for third-party investment research for client accounts covered by mifid ii. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with such distributors may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum, income and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected and may in the future affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. appreciation of the u.s. dollar has and could in the future moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain of our sips invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, downturns in international markets have in the past and could in the future have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from financial, economic, political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. as our business continues to grow in non-u.s. markets, any ongoing and future business, economic, political or social unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. harm to our reputation or poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, our sips or our sips may terminate their management agreements with 25 table of contents us, which could reduce the amount of our aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is also critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past and could in the future lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. there is no assurance that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause us to lose current clients and we may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm or poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation or performance and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions or regulations; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, merit increases and severance costs, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; and/or changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully manage and grow our business can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology systems we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities and infrastructure, and the proper functioning of our technology, computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations that are critical to our business. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our various back-up systems provide us with an advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters; political, economic or infrastructure instabilities; information, technology or security limitations or breaches; or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies. we may also become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations, or 26 table of contents governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, we may be named as a party in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and standard form of director indemnification agreement we are obligated under certain conditions, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and/or negatively impact our profitability and financial results. judgments, findings or allegations of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in litigation against us or settlements with respect thereto, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain cash, financing or access to the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and may have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and/or the valuation levels of equity markets. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to fund our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions which may limit their ability to transfer assets to their parent companies and/or our ability to repatriate assets to the u.s. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute assets to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of consolidated sips is limited to that of our direct equity investments in the sips and investment management fees earned from them. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of our consolidated sips are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the market value of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2017 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $393.3 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sips that invest in debt securities, which were $1,539.5 million at september 30, 2017 . our exposure to interest rate risks from these investments is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the sips. the investment mandates of the remaining sips consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2017 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2017 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sips that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next twelve months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the euro, indian rupee, pound sterling and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for 9% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2017 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 5% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2017 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 55 table of contents a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2017 would result in a $77.5 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a $40.2 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2017 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from trading investment securities and direct investments in consolidated sips would result in a $183.0 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. the changes from available-for-sale investment securities would not result in a change to other-than-temporary impairment charges that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease investment securities, trading $ 314.5 $ 346.0 $ 283.1 investment securities, available-for-sale 112.7 124.0 101.4 direct investments in consolidated sips 1,514.8 1,666.3 1,363.3 total $ 1,942.0 $ 2,136.3 $ 1,747.8 56 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets may from time to time experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management ( aum ), revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors in jurisdictions worldwide through our investment products which include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high net-worth separate accounts. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and other services. the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the nature and strategies of our products. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity, debt and commodity markets may be adversely affected by financial, economic, political, electoral, diplomatic or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity, debt or commodity marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks, the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past and could in the future cause the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. our funds may be subject to liquidity risks or an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of the events or conditions described above, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit, to obtain cash to maintain sufficient liquidity or settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. we have in the past, and may in the future, at our discretion, provide financial support to our funds to enable them to maintain sufficient liquidity in any such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular products have in the past and could in the future cause sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of management fees we earn based on our aum. we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed income products and away from equity and multi-asset/balanced products, and a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from our equity and certain multi-asset/balanced products than from our fixed income products. further, changing market conditions and investor preferences also may cause a shift in our asset mix towards lower fee exchange-traded funds. increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate the interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate. as described below, our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate. our regulatory and compliance obligations impose significant operational and cost burdens on us and cover a broad range of requirements related to securities 18 table of contents and other financial instruments, investment and advisory matters, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs, and escheatment laws and regulations. as a u.s. reporting company, we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the new york stock exchange. as a global investment management organization, certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority, the u.s. commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ), the national futures association, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) and the u.s. department of treasury. given our global operations, our subsidiaries are also subject to applicable securities and other laws of various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and to various non-u.s. and cross-border rules and regulations, such as the european union's ( eu ) data protection rules under the eu's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ). our non-u.s. regulators include, among others, the united kingdom ( u.k. ) financial conduct authority, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier, the canadian provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, the monetary authority of singapore, the australian securities and investments commission, the hong kong securities and futures commission, the securities and exchange board of india, the japanese financial services agency and various international stock exchanges. our non-u.s. operations may also be subject to regulation by u.s. regulators, including the sec, the cftc and the doj (for example, with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977). we are also subject not only to the sanctions programs administered by the u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control, but also to sanctions programs adopted and administered by non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the eu, where our services and products are offered. we are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property. further, certain federal and state anti-takeover or business combination laws may impose various disclosure and procedural requirements on the ability of a person to acquire control of us, which may discourage potential merger and acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control, including through transactions that some stockholders may consider desirable. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, the cftc and/or registered with or licensed by various non-u.s. regulators. in addition, many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940 (the investment company act ) or authorized by various european and other non-u.s. regulators pursuant to the eu's undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) directive or under other non-u.s. laws in europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada and latin america. these registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes. financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. political and electoral changes, developments and conflicts may also introduce additional uncertainty. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment, could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and income. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ) authorized the establishment of the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to u.s. financial stability. similarly, the u.s. and other members of the g-20 group of nations have empowered the financial stability board ( fsb ) to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. the fsoc may designate certain non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. the fsb may designate certain non-bank financial companies as global systemically important financial institutions ( g-sifis ); the additional regulatory requirements triggered by any such designation are not yet established. the fsoc and the fsb, as well as other global regulators including the european commission, are considering what threats to u.s., eu and global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they sponsor or manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as sifis or g-sifis and/or subjecting them to additional regulation. to the extent that we or any of our funds are designated as a sifi or g-sifi, such regulation, which could include requirements 19 table of contents related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, could impact our business. the dodd-frank act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our services and products. we continue to analyze the impact of the dodd-frank act as implementing rules are adopted and become effective. under the dodd-frank act, which imposes a number of regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility. the eu and other countries are in the process of implementing similar requirements, and there is some risk that full mutual recognition may not be achieved between the various regimes, and duplication of regulation and transaction costs may result. these and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. in addition, the sec has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and that will require certain registered funds to adopt liquidity management programs. (compliance with certain aspects of the latter is required by december 1, 2018, and other aspects are delayed until june 1, 2019, subject to further regulatory update.) the sec has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. we expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with the bank secrecy act of 1970, anti-money laundering and know your customer requirements, and economic, trade and other sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources. any inability to meet these requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. global regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the dodd-frank act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. similarly, the securities and related laws outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive ( aifmd ) and markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ). although negotiations between the u.k. and eu regarding the u.k.'s proposed withdrawal from the eu ( brexit ) began in june 2017, it is still unclear what terms may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. moreover, the adoption of new laws, regulations or standards and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations or standards have directly affected, and will continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. in particular, certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and mifid ii still require the adoption of implementing rules. we may be required to invest significant additional management time and resources to address the new regulations being adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act, mifid ii and other laws. for example, mifid ii requires the unbundling of research and execution charges for trading. the industry's response to the unbundling rules is still evolving and could lead to increased research costs. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. as of may 2018, the eu's gdpr strengthened and unified data protection rules for individuals within the eu. the gdpr also addresses export of personal data outside the eu. the primary objectives of the gdpr are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation within the eu. compliance with the stringent data protection rules under the gdpr requires an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. the failure to comply timely and properly with gdpr rules and to maintain ongoing compliance with such rules may subject us to enforcement proceedings and significant fines and costs. for example, a failure to comply with the gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of our annual global revenues, whichever is higher. 20 table of contents further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the organization for economic co-operation and development has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries ( crs ), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. in many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new crs rules. crs will be implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. crs may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required, and will continue to require, us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any further regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the investment management industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. the regulatory environments of the jurisdictions where we conduct our business, or where our products are organized or sold, are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our jurisdictions could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. in recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our services and products in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, and are subject to ongoing tax audits, in various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may at times materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act enacted into law in the u.s. on december 22, 2017 includes various changes to the tax law, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate and one-time transition tax on certain non-u.s. earnings. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could disrupt our business and harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the continuity and effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, management oversight and reporting framework, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology on a daily basis in our business to, among other things, support our business continuity and operations, process and transmit confidential communications, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to our clients. any disruptions, inaccuracies, delays, systems failures, data or privacy breaches, or cyber or other security breaches in these and other processes could subject us to significant client dissatisfaction and losses and damage our reputation. although we take protective measures, including measures to secure and protect information through system security technology and our internal security procedures, the technology systems we use remain vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, potential human errors or other events and circumstances that have a security impact, such as an external or internal hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including through the use of phishing attacks, malware, ransomware and other methods and activities designed to maliciously obtain and exploit confidential information and to otherwise cause 21 table of contents damage) or an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently or recklessly causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system disruptions, failures or breaches of the technology systems we use or the security infrastructure we rely upon, and the costs necessary to address them, could result in: significant material financial loss or costs; the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client and business information; loss of valuable information; breach of client and vendor contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the failure or breach; additional security and organizational costs to mitigate against future incidents; reputational harm; loss of confidence in our business and products; liability for failure to properly and timely review and disclose applicable incidents or provide relevant updated disclosure; regulatory investigations or actions; and/or legal claims, liability and litigation costs resulting from the incident. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential customer identification information could further harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. in addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, advisors, central agents, exchanges, clearing organizations and other financial institutions, we may be adversely affected if any of them are subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event, including those arising due to the use of mobile technology or a third-party cloud environment. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact our business. also, our third-party applications may include confidential and proprietary data provided by vendors and by us. we may be subject to indemnification costs and liability to third parties if we breach any confidentiality obligations regarding vendor data, for losses related to the data, or if data we provide is deemed to infringe upon the rights of others. in addition, the failure to properly manage and operate the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and our competitors may from time to time implement new technologies or more advanced platforms for their services and products, including digital advisers and other advanced electronic systems, which could adversely affect our business if we are unable to remain competitive. our business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our services and products, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our aum, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to investors globally through our products. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. many of our operations are complex and dependent on our ability to effectively process and monitor a large number of transactions, many of which may occur across numerous markets and currencies at high volumes and frequencies. although we expend considerable resources on internal controls, supervision, technology and training in an effort to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable guidelines, rules and regulations or adversely affect our clients, counterparties or us, our operations are ultimately dependent on our employees and subject to potential human errors. our employees and others involved in our business may, from time to time, make mistakes that are not always immediately detected, which may disrupt our operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or sanctions, or otherwise damage our reputation. in addition, any misrepresentation of our services and products in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could also adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with our products. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated or significantly altered. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell our products such as our funds and strategies, and offer our investment management and related services, in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may also vary widely, or be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have included extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. in addition, from time to time we enter into joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or our joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, our joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability for us or harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. laws and regulations, including those contained in or relating to the eu ' capital requirements directive, those adopted under aifmd and ucits and those required to be adopted under the dodd-frank act, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business develops, we are likely to need to increase the number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, our key personnel may from time to time have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism, and we may be unable to ensure the safety of our personnel traveling to such regions. there is no assurance that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our products also compete with products offered by these competitors, as well as with real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and other products. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. further, although we may offer certain types of exchange-traded funds, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of lower fee index and other exchange-traded funds, it may favor our competitors who may offer such products that are more established or on a 23 table of contents larger scale than we do. additionally, competing securities broker-dealers, whom we rely upon to distribute and sell certain of our funds and other products, may also sell their own proprietary funds and products, which could limit the distribution of our products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our products, offering a mix of products and strategies that meets investor demands, and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. the sec has proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our u.s.-registered funds. higher distribution costs lower our income; consolidations in the broker-dealer industry could also adversely impact our income. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec may establish different standards for broker-dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could have an impact on sales and/or distribution costs. in april 2018, the sec proposed rules that would apply to all retail investors and would, among other things: require broker-dealers to act in the best interest of their retail customers when recommending securities and provide additional disclosure about the scope and terms of the relationship; clarify the fiduciary duty that an investment adviser owes to its clients; and require a new short-form disclosure document to inform clients of the nature of their relationships with investment professionals and investment advisers, including differences in the principal types of services offered, the legal standards of conduct that apply to each, the fees a client might pay, and conflicts of interest that may exist. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands and the eu in mifid ii have adopted regimes which ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers in those jurisdictions, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules related to the requirement that commissions reflect an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. the interpretation of the inducements rules has also resulted in major changes to how fund managers finance investment research with many firms, including ours, opting to pay for third-party investment research for client accounts covered by mifid ii. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with such distributors may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum, income and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of our products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected and may in the future affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. appreciation of the u.s. dollar has and could in the future moderate revenues from managing our products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain of our products invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, downturns in international markets have in the past and could in the future have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from financial, economic, political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, 24 table of contents are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. as our business continues to grow in non-u.s. markets, any ongoing and future business, economic, political or social unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. harm to our reputation or poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, our products or our products may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of our aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is also critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past and could in the future lead to a decrease in sales of our products and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. there is no assurance that past or present investment performance in our products will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. reputational harm or poor investment performance may cause us to lose current clients and we may be unable to continue to attract new clients or develop new business. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm or poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation or performance and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions or regulations; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, merit increases and severance costs, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; and/or changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully manage and grow our business can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology systems we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities and infrastructure, and the proper functioning of our technology, computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations that are critical to our business. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our various back-up systems provide us with an advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters; political, economic or infrastructure instabilities; information, technology or security limitations or breaches; or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing 25 table of contents business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we receive and respond to governmental or regulatory requests for documents or other information, subpoenas, examinations and investigations in connection with our business activities. in addition, governmental or regulatory examinations or investigations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, from time to time, we are named as a party in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and standard form of director indemnification agreement we are obligated under certain conditions, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and/or negatively impact our profitability and financial results. allegations, findings or judgments of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in litigation against us, or settlements with respect thereto, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain cash, financing or access to the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and may have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and/or the valuation levels of equity markets. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to fund our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions which may limit their ability to transfer assets to their parent companies. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute assets to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of cips is limited to that of our direct equity investments in them and investment management fees earned from them. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of cips are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the market value of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $395.7 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sponsored funds that invest in debt securities, which were $1,457.8 million at september 30, 2018 . our exposure to interest rate risks from these investments is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the funds. the investment mandates of the remaining funds consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2018 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2018 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sponsored funds that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next twelve months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the euro, pound sterling, indian rupee and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for 10% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2018 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 5% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2018 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 52 table of contents a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2018 would result in a $69.7 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a $31.0 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2018 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from trading investment securities and direct investments in cips would result in a $144.0 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. the changes from available-for-sale investment securities would not result in a change to other-than-temporary impairment charges that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease investment securities, trading $ 345.7 $ 380.3 $ 311.1 investment securities, available-for-sale 194.1 213.5 174.7 direct investments in cips 1,093.5 1,202.9 984.2 total $ 1,633.3 $ 1,796.7 $ 1,470.0 53 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. market and volatility risks volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets may, from time to time, experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our aum, revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had, and may in the future have, an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors in jurisdictions worldwide through our investment products, which include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, and sub-advised products. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales and distribution, and shareholder servicing. we may perform services directly or through third parties. the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and relative mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are primarily based on a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the nature and strategies of our products. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity, debt and commodity markets may be adversely affected by financial, economic, political, electoral, diplomatic or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, natural disasters or financial crises, changes in the equity, debt or commodity marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks, the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past caused, and could 18 table of contents in the future cause, the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. our funds may be subject to liquidity risks or an unanticipated large number of redemptions. due to market volatility or other events or conditions described above, our funds may need to sell securities or instruments that they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit, to obtain cash to maintain sufficient liquidity or settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. while we have no legal or contractual obligation to do so, we have in the past provided, and may in the future at our discretion provide, financial support to our funds to enable them to maintain sufficient liquidity in any such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular products have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, credit or interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. a shift in our asset mix toward lower fee products may negatively impact our revenues. changing market conditions and investor preferences may cause a shift in our asset mix toward certain lower fee products, such as fixed income products, and away from equity and multi-asset/balanced products. this may cause a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from our equity and certain multi-asset/balanced products than from our fixed income products. increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate the interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. further, changing market conditions and investor preferences also may cause a shift in our asset mix toward lower fee exchange-traded funds. moreover, we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of management fees we earn on that aum. we may not effectively manage risks associated with the replacement of benchmark indices. the withdrawal and replacement of widely used benchmark indices such as the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) with alternative benchmark rates may introduce a number of risks for our business, our clients and the financial services industry more widely. these include financial risks arising from potential changes in the valuation of financial instruments linked to benchmark indices, pricing and operational risks, and legal implementation and revised documentation risks. the fca in the u.k., which regulates libor, has announced that it will no longer compel panel banks to submit rates for libor after 2021. accordingly, the withdrawal and replacement of libor may pose financial risks and uncertainties to our business. we also may face operational challenges adopting successor benchmarks. investment and performance risks poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past led, and could in the future lead, to a decrease in sales of our products and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. there is no assurance that past or present investment performance in our products will be indicative of future performance. if we fail, or appear to fail, to address successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our performance and our future business prospects would likely be negatively affected. harm to our reputation may negatively impact our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, our products, or our clients and products may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of our aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. in addition, reputational harm may prevent us from attracting new clients or developing new business. 19 table of contents global operational risks our business operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks properly or the misrepresentation of our services and products, or the termination of investment management agreements representing a significant portion of our aum, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to investors globally. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. many of our operations are complex and dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions effectively, which may occur across numerous markets and currencies at high volumes and frequencies. although we expend considerable resources on internal controls, supervision, technology and training in an effort to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable guidelines, rules and regulations or adversely affect our clients, counterparties or us, our operations are ultimately dependent on our employees, as well as others involved in our business, such as third-party vendors, providers and other intermediaries, and subject to potential human errors. our employees and others involved in our business may, from time to time, make mistakes that are not always immediately detected, which may disrupt our operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or sanctions, litigation, or otherwise damage our reputation. in addition, any misrepresentation of our services and products in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could also adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with our products and clients. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to perform and monitor our operations properly, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell our products, such as our funds and strategies, and offer our investment management and related services, in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to operate our business consistently and effectively. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may vary widely and they may be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses, as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs, and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain challenges as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. for example, although negotiations between the u.k. and eu regarding brexit began in june 2017, it is still unclear what terms, if any, may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period, and the ultimate impact on us. in addition, from time to time, we enter into joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. the business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability to us or harm to our reputation, or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. 20 table of contents our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of our products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected, and may in the future affect, our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, our situation may change in the future. appreciation of the u.s. dollar could in the future moderate revenues from managing our products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain of our products invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, downturns in international markets have in the past had, and could in the future have, a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from financial, economic, political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. as our business continues to grow in non-u.s. markets, any ongoing and future business, economic, political or social unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. we may review and pursue strategic transactions that could pose risks to our business. as part of our business strategy, we regularly consider, and have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be deemed material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. in addition, such transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. acquisitions and related transactions pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. strategic transactions typically are announced publicly even though they may remain subject to numerous closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, and there is no assurance that any announced transaction will actually be consummated. future transactions may also further increase our leverage or, if we issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions, dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. competition and distribution risks strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our products also compete with products offered by these competitors, as well as with real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and other products. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. further, although we may offer certain types of exchange-traded funds, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of lower fee index and other exchange-traded funds, it may favor our competitors who may offer such products that are more established or on a larger scale than we do. additionally, competing securities broker-dealers and banks, upon which we rely to distribute and sell certain of our funds and other products, may also sell their own proprietary funds and products, which could limit the distribution of our products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our products, offering a mix of products and strategies that meets investor demands, and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. 21 table of contents increasing competition and other changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. because we rely on third-party distribution and sales channels to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given by them to clients. increasing competition for these distribution and sales channels, and regulatory changes and initiatives, have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further cost increases in the future, or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our income, and consolidations in the broker-dealer or banking industries could also adversely impact our income. a failure to maintain our third-party distribution and sales channels, or a failure to maintain strong business relationships with our distributors and other intermediaries, may impair our distribution and sales operations. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through such third-party channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum and adversely impact our business. moreover, there is no assurance that we will continue to have access to the third-party financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or that we will continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. if several of the major financial advisers that distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. further, the standards of conduct and disclosure and reporting requirements, with respect to fees, products, services and possible conflicts of interest, applicable to broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries in the u.s., remain subject to change and enhancement pursuant to business and regulatory developments and requirements, including with respect to investor suitability obligations, enhanced investor protections for retail customers, and increased compliance requirements. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands and the eu, through mifid ii, have adopted regimes that ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers in those jurisdictions, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules related to the requirement that commissions reflect an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. the interpretation of the inducements rules has also resulted in major changes to how fund managers, including us, finance investment research with many firms, by opting to pay for third-party investment research for client accounts covered by mifid ii. third-party risks any failure of our third-party providers to fulfill their obligations, or our failure to maintain good relationships with our providers, could adversely impact our business. we currently, and may in the future, depend on a number of third-party providers to support various operational, administrative, market data, distribution, and other business needs of our company. in addition, we may, from time to time, transfer vendor contracts and services from one provider to another. if our third-party providers fail to deliver required services on a timely basis, or if we experience other negative service quality or relationship issues with our providers, we may be exposed to significant costs and/or operational difficulties, and our ability to conduct and grow our business may be impaired. in addition, we are in the process of outsourcing certain of our fund administration services for our funds to a third-party provider. such administrative and functional changes are costly and complex, and may expose us to heightened operational risks. any failure to mitigate such risks could result in reputational harm to us, as well as financial losses to us and our clients. the failure of any key provider or vendor to fulfill its obligations to us could result in outcomes inconsistent with our or our clients' objectives and requirements, result in legal liability and regulatory issues for us, and otherwise adversely impact us. we may be adversely affected if any of our third-party providers is subject to a successful cyber or security attack. due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, advisors, central agents, exchanges, clearing organizations and other financial institutions, we may be adversely affected if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event, including those arising due to the use of mobile technology or a third-party cloud environment. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. any breach, suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact our business. our third-party applications may include confidential and proprietary data provided by vendors and by us. 22 table of contents technology and security risks our ability to manage and grow our business successfully can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate our varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our technology continually, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement new technology when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require significant capital spending, and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and our competitors may, from time to time, implement newer technologies or more advanced platforms for their services and products, including digital advisers and other advanced electronic systems, which could adversely affect our business if we are unable to remain competitive. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could disrupt our business and harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the continuity and effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, management oversight and reporting framework, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology on a daily basis in our business to, among other things, support our business continuity and operations, process and transmit confidential communications, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to our clients. any disruptions, inaccuracies, delays, theft, systems failures, data security or privacy breaches, or cyber or other security breaches in these and other processes could subject us to significant client dissatisfaction and losses, and damage our reputation. we have been, and expect to continue to be, the subject of these types of breaches and/or attacks, from time to time. although we take protective measures, including measures to secure and protect information through system security technology and our internal security procedures, there can be no assurance that any of these measures will prove effective. the technology systems we use remain vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, potential human errors and other events and circumstances that have a security impact, such as an external or internal hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including through the use of phishing attacks, malware, ransomware and other methods and activities maliciously designed to obtain and exploit confidential information and to cause damage) or an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently or recklessly causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system disruptions, failures or breaches of the technology we use or the security infrastructure we rely upon, and the costs necessary to address them, could result in: (i) significant material financial loss or costs, (ii) the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client and business information, (iii) loss of valuable information, (iv) breach of client and vendor contracts, (v) liability for stolen assets, information or identity, (vi) remediation costs to repair damage caused by the failure or breach, (vii) additional security and organizational costs to mitigate against future incidents, (viii) reputational harm, (ix) loss of confidence in our business and products, (x) liability for failure to review and disclose applicable incidents or provide relevant updated disclosure properly and timely, (xi) regulatory investigations or actions, and/or (xii) legal claims, litigation, and liability costs. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential and proprietary data or confidential customer identification information could further harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential data and personal information, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk, which may require us to incur additional administrative costs and/or take remedial actions. in addition, the failure to manage and operate properly the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. 23 table of contents our inability to recover successfully, should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, legal liability, and/or reputational harm. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities and infrastructure, and the proper functioning of our technology, computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations that are critical to our business. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our various back-up systems provide us with an advantage, should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how such a local or regional event may affect our personnel across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executives or personnel in our technology groups. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, information, technology or security limitations or breaches, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to recover successfully following a disaster or other business continuity problem, could adversely impact our business and operations. human capital risks we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly-skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. global and/or local laws and regulations could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business develops, we may need to increase the number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals and increase our key management succession planning, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. there is no assurance that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, our key personnel may, from time to time, have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism, and we may be unable to ensure the safety of our personnel traveling to such regions. expense and cash management risks our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate expense level. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: (i) changes in the level and scope of our operating expenses in response to market conditions or regulations, (ii) variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, merit increases and severance costs, (iii) changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors, (iv) changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses, and (v) increases in insurance expenses, including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. if we are unable to obtain cash, financing or access to the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and may have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and/or the valuation levels of equity markets. 24 table of contents we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to fund our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions that may limit their ability to transfer assets to their parent companies. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute assets to us. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory and compliance environments in which we operate. our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations, around the world. political and electoral changes, developments and conflicts have in the past introduced, and may in the future introduce, additional uncertainty. our regulatory and compliance obligations impose significant operational and cost burdens on us and cover a broad range of requirements related to financial reporting and other disclosure matters, securities and other financial instruments, investment and advisory matters, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs, and escheatment requirements. we may be adversely affected by a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and changes in the countries in which we operate. for a more extensive discussion of the laws, regulations and regulators to which we are subject, see item 1 - business - regulation included in part i of this annual report on form 10 k. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. over the years, the u.s. federal corporate governance and securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by various legislation. as we continue to address our legal and regulatory requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded requirements, we may need to expend a substantial amount of additional time, costs and resources. regulatory reforms may add further complexity to our business and operations and could require us to alter our investment management services and related activities, which could be costly, impede our growth and adversely impact our aum, revenues and income. regulatory reforms also may impact our clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in a manner adverse to our business. certain key regulatory reforms in the u.s. that impact or relate to our business, and may cause us to incur additional obligations, include: dodd-frank. in july 2010, dodd-frank was adopted in the u.s. dodd-frank is expansive in scope and has required the adoption of extensive regulations and the issuance of numerous regulatory decisions, while certain proposed rules remain subject to final adoption. systemically important financial institutions. dodd-frank authorized the establishment of the fsoc, the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to u.s. financial stability. similarly, the u.s. and other members of the g-20 group of nations have empowered the fsb to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. to the extent that we or any of our funds are designated as sifis by the fsoc or as global sifis by the fsb, such designations add additional supervision and/or regulation, which could include requirements related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, that could impact our business. derivatives and other financial products . dodd-frank, as well as other legislation and regulations, impose restrictions and limitations on us related to our financial services and products, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight. under dodd-frank's regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are required to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility. the eu and other countries have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, similar requirements. there is some risk that full mutual recognition may not be achieved between the various regulators, which may cause us to incur duplicate regulation and transaction costs. the sec has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. in addition, sec rules have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and certain u.s.-registered funds are required to adopt liquidity management programs. 25 table of contents privacy and data protection. there also has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and data, and the need to secure sensitive customer, employee and others' information. as the regulatory focus on privacy continues to intensify and laws and regulations concerning the management of personal data expand, risks related to privacy and data collection within our business will increase. in addition to the eu's gdpr data protection rules, we may also be or become subject to or affected by additional country, federal and state laws, regulations and guidance impacting consumer privacy, such as the recently enacted ccpa effective january 2020, which provides for enhanced consumer protections for california residents and statutory fines for data security breaches or other ccpa violations. noncompliance with our legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection could result in penalties, legal proceedings by governmental entities or affected individuals, and significant legal and financial exposure. rule 12b-1 plans . in 2010, the sec proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act that, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our u.s.-registered funds, which could decrease our revenues. sec regulation best interest. in june 2019, the sec adopted a package of new rules, amendments and interpretations, including regulation best interest and a new form of relationship summary, designed to enhance investor protections for all retail customers, that will, subject to a transition period until june 30, 2020, among other things: (i) require broker-dealers to act in the best interest of their retail customers when recommending securities and account types, (ii) raise the broker-dealer standard of conduct beyond existing suitability obligations, and (iii) require a new relationship summary disclosure document to inform retail clients of the nature of the broker-dealers' relationships with investment professionals and registered investment advisers, including a description of services offered, the legal standards of conduct that apply to each, the fees a client might pay, and conflicts of interest that may exist. other compliance requirements . compliance with the u.s. bank secrecy act of 1970, the u.s. patriot act of 2001, and anti-money laundering and economic sanctions, both domestically and internationally, has taken on heightened importance as a result of efforts to, among other things, combat terrorist financing and actions that undermine the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries. in addition, global regulatory, federal and/or state anti-takeover or business combination laws may impose various disclosure and procedural requirements on a person seeking to acquire control of us, which may discourage potential merger and acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control, including through transactions that some stockholders may consider desirable. the impacts of these and other regulatory reforms on us, now and in the future, could be significant. we expect that the regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to continue to incur additional compliance and administrative burdens and costs. any inability to meet applicable requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. global regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. as in the u.s., regulatory and legislative actions outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex, by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive and mifid ii. further, ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. moreover, the adoption of new laws, regulations or standards and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations or standards have directly affected, and will continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. we may be required to invest significant additional management time and resources to address new regulations being adopted pursuant to mifid ii and other laws. for example, mifid ii requires the unbundling of research and execution charges for trading. the industry's response to the unbundling rules is still evolving and could lead to increased research costs. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. 26 table of contents as of may 2018, the eu's gdpr strengthened and unified data protection rules for individuals within the eu. gdpr also addresses export of personal data outside the eu. the primary objectives of gdpr are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation within the eu. compliance with the stringent data protection rules under gdpr requires an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. the failure to comply properly with gdpr rules on a timely basis and to maintain ongoing compliance with such rules may subject us to enforcement proceedings and significant fines and costs. for example, a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of our annual global revenues, whichever is higher. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required, and will continue to require, us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any further regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the investment management industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our jurisdictions could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines, censures, injunctive relief, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, the regulatory environments of the jurisdictions where we conduct our business, or where our products are organized or sold, are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. in recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our services and products in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, and are subject to ongoing tax audits, in various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may at times materially impact our effective tax rate. the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act includes various changes to the tax law, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate and one-time transition tax on certain non-u.s. earnings. further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the oecd has adopted crs, aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. in many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new crs rules. crs is being implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. crs may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs, and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution. the oecd has also undertaken a new project focused on addressing the tax challenges of the digitalization of the economy. this project may impact all multinational businesses by allocating a greater share of taxing rights to countries where consumers are located regardless of the current physical presence of a business, and by implementing a global minimum tax. there is significant uncertainty regarding such proposal and any unfavorable resolution could have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. 27 table of contents our contractual obligations may subject us to indemnification costs and liability to third parties. in the ordinary course of business, we and our subsidiaries enter into contracts with third parties, including, without limitation, clients, vendors, and other service providers, that contain a variety of representations and warranties and that provide for indemnifications by us in certain circumstances. pursuant to such contractual arrangements, we may be subject to indemnification costs and liability to third parties if, for example, we breach any material obligations under the agreements or agreed standards of care, or in the event such third parties have certain legal claims asserted against them. the terms of these indemnities vary from contract to contract, and future indemnification claims against us could negatively impact our financial condition. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time, we receive and respond to regulatory and governmental requests for documents or other information, subpoenas, examinations and investigations in connection with our business activities. in addition, regulatory or governmental examinations or investigations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, from time to time, we are named as a party in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and standard form of director indemnification agreement we are obligated under certain conditions, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any examinations, investigations, litigation, and/or settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and/or negatively impact our profitability and financial results. allegations, findings or judgments of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in litigation against us, or settlements with respect thereto, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of cips is limited to that of our direct equity investments in them and investment management fees earned from them. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of cips are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2019 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $364.5 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sponsored funds that invest in debt securities, which were $1,691.4 million at september 30, 2019 . our exposure to interest rate risks from these investments is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the funds. the investment mandates of the remaining funds consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2019 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2019 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sponsored funds that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next twelve months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, the middle east and africa, asia-pacific, canada, the bahamas and latin america. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the euro, indian rupee, pound sterling and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for 11% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2019 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 4% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2019 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 55 table of contents a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2019 would result in a $67.1 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss and a $19.2 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2019 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from equity securities measured at fair value, debt securities and direct investments in cips would result in a $171.0 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease equity securities, at fair value $ 530.0 $ 583.0 $ 477.0 debt securities 48.2 53.0 43.4 direct investments in cips 1,131.6 1,244.8 1,018.4 total $ 1,709.8 $ 1,880.8 $ 1,538.8 56 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. pandemic-related risks our business and operations are subject to adverse effects from the outbreak and spread of contagious diseases such as covid-19, and we expect such adverse effects to continue. the outbreak and spread of contagious diseases such as covid-19, a highly transmissible and pathogenic disease, has adversely affected, and we expect will continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. the covid-19 pandemic has resulted and will likely continue to result in a widespread national and global public health crisis. such infectious illness outbreaks or other adverse public health developments in countries where we operate, as well as local, state and/or national government restrictive measures implemented to control such outbreaks, could adversely affect the economies of many nations or the entire global economy, the financial condition of individual issuers or companies and capital markets, in ways that cannot necessarily be foreseen, and such impacts could be significant and long term. such extraordinary events and their aftermaths can cause investor fear and panic, which can further adversely affect the operations and performance of companies, sectors, nations, regions and financial markets in general and in ways that cannot necessarily be foreseen. the covid-19 pandemic has already adversely affected and will likely continue to adversely affect global economies and markets, and has resulted in a global economic downturn and disruptions in commerce that will continue to evolve, including with respect to financial and other economic activities, services, travel and supply chains. global and national health concerns, and uncertainty regarding the impact of covid-19, could lead to further and/or increased volatility in global capital and credit markets, adversely affect our key executives and other personnel, clients, investors, providers, suppliers, lessees, and other third parties, and negatively impact our aum, revenues, income, business and operations. our business has been and will likely continue to be negatively impacted by the current covid-19 pandemic, including by the potential reoccurrence of periods of increased spread of covid-19, and ensuing economic downturn in global financial markets. the global spread of covid-19, and the various governmental actions and economic effects related to the pandemic, have had, and are expected to continue to have, negative impacts on our business and operations, including volatility in asset values, reduced demand for our products and services, concerns for and restrictions on our personnel (including health concerns, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and restrictions on travel), and increased privacy and cybersecurity risks. past economic downturns have caused, and the current economic downturn is causing and is expected to continue to cause, periods of significant volatility in our stock price, decreases and fluctuations in our aum, revenues and income, increased liquidity risks and redemptions from our funds and other products, resulting in difficulties obtaining cash to settle redemptions, fund closures, poor investment performance of our products and corporate investments, increased focus on expense management, capital resources and related planning, and could cause reputational harm, legal claims, and other factors that may arise or develop. current increased liquidity risks and redemptions in our funds and other products have required, and may continue to require, increased cash in the form of loans or other lines of credit for them to draw on to help settle redemptions and for other related purposes. we have in some cases voluntarily determined to, and without obligation could in the future, extend such loans. in addition, such increased liquidity risks and redemptions have caused, and could continue to cause, fund closures and related regulatory and governmental reviews or investigations and legal claims or actions, subjecting us to legal and regulatory risks and potential financial exposure. our business operations are complex and conducted in numerous countries around the globe, and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to perform our asset management and related business responsibilities for our clients and investors properly and effectively throughout the course of the covid-19 pandemic, which, among other matters, is dependent on the health and safety of our personnel, the ability of our personnel to work remotely successfully, and our ability to have our personnel return to work at our offices safely and effectively in compliance with applicable requirements. we have implemented our business continuity plans globally to manage our business during this pandemic, including broad and extended work-from-home capabilities for our personnel where feasible and, as governmental shelter-in-place restrictions have been lifted in various jurisdictions, we have implemented measures for the return of a portion of our personnel to certain of our offices. we can provide no assurance that our efforts and planning for either environment will be sufficient to protect the health and safety of our personnel and maintain the success of our business. further, we depend on a number of third-party providers to support our operations, and any failure of our providers to fulfill their obligations could adversely impact our business. moreover, we now have an increased dependency on remote equipment and connectivity infrastructure to access critical business systems that may be subject to failure, disruption or unavailability that could negatively impact our business operations. additionally, multiple regions in which we operate have shelter-in-place movement restrictions on our personnel and third-party vendors and service providers that may impact our ability to satisfy or respond timely to potential technology issues or needs impacting our business and operations. further, we, like many others during this time, have been subject to 18 table of contents an increase in phishing and other social engineering attempts by malicious actors to manipulate individuals into divulging confidential or personal information. if our cybersecurity diligence and efforts to offset the increased risks associated with greater reliance on mobile, collaborative and remote technologies during this pandemic are not effective or successful, we will be at increased risk for cybersecurity or data privacy incidents. any inability to recover successfully following the covid-19 pandemic with respect to the economic, investment or operational impacts to our company or industry could further negatively impact our business and operations. as of the time of this filing, as the covid-19 pandemic continues to evolve, it is not possible to predict the full extent to which the coronavirus will adversely impact our business, liquidity, capital resources, financial results and operations, which impacts will depend on numerous developing factors that are highly uncertain and rapidly changing. the impacts and risks described herein relating to covid-19 augment the discussion of overlapping risks in our risk factors below, which may be heightened by covid-19. market and volatility risks volatility and disruption of our business and the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the asset management industry continues to experience disruption and challenges, including a shift to lower-fee passively managed products, increased fee pressure, regulatory changes, an increasing and changing role of technology in asset management services, the continuous introduction of new products and services and the consolidation of financial services firms through mergers and acquisitions. further, the capital and credit markets have and may continue, from time to time, to experience volatility and disruption worldwide. declines in global financial market conditions have in the past resulted in significant decreases in our aum, revenues and income, and future declines may further negatively impact our financial results. such declines have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to compete in a changing global economy and business environment. the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to investors in jurisdictions worldwide through our investment products, which include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, retail separately managed account programs, sub-advised products, and other investment vehicles. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales and distribution, and shareholder servicing. we may perform services directly or through third parties. the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and relative mix of aum. our investment management fee revenues are based primarily on a percentage of aum and vary with the nature and strategies of our products. any decrease in the value or amount of our aum because of market volatility or other factors, such as asset outflows or a decline in the price of stocks, in particular market segments or in the securities market generally, negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to significant risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial, equity, debt and commodity markets. individual financial, equity, debt and commodity markets may be adversely affected by financial, economic, political, electoral, diplomatic or other instabilities that are particular to the country or region in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises, political protests, war, insurrection or other business, social or political crises. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war, terrorism, social, civil or political unrest, natural disasters, public health crises, such as epidemics or pandemics, or financial crises, changes in the equity, debt or commodity marketplaces, changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by trading counterparties, bond defaults, revaluation and bond market liquidity risks, geopolitical risks, the imposition of economic sanctions and other factors that are difficult to predict, affect the mix, market values and levels of our aum. for example, changes in financial market prices, currency exchange rates and/or interest rates have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, the value of our aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management fee revenues. changing market conditions could also cause an impairment to the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. 19 table of contents our funds may be subject to liquidity risks or an unanticipated large number of redemptions and fund closures. due to market volatility or other events or conditions described above, our funds may need to sell securities or instruments that they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit, to obtain cash to maintain sufficient liquidity or settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. while we have no legal or contractual obligation to do so, we have in the past provided, and may in the future at our discretion provide, financial support to our funds to enable them to maintain sufficient liquidity in any such event. changes in investor preferences regarding our more popular products have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, sizable redemptions and lower the value of our aum, which would result in lower revenue and operating results. increased market volatility and changes in investor preferences also increase the risk of fund closures. any decrease in the level of our aum resulting from market declines, credit or interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. a shift in our asset mix toward lower fee products may negatively impact our revenues. changing market conditions and investor preferences may cause a shift in our asset mix toward certain lower fee products, such as fixed income products, and away from equity and multi-asset products. this may cause a related decline in our revenues and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from our equity and certain multi-asset products than from our fixed income products. increases in interest rates, particularly if rapid, as well as uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed income products. although the shorter duration of the bond investments in many of these products may help mitigate interest rate risk, rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. further, changing market conditions and investor preferences also may cause a shift in our asset mix toward lower fee etfs. moreover, we generally derive higher investment management and distribution fees from our international products than from our u.s. products, and higher sales fees from our u.s. products than from our international products. changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. products, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our aum and the level of fees we earn on that aum. we may not effectively manage risks associated with the replacement of benchmark indices. the withdrawal and replacement of widely used benchmark indices such as the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) with alternative benchmark rates may introduce a number of risks for our business, our clients and the financial services industry more widely. these include financial risks arising from potential changes in the valuation of financial instruments linked to benchmark indices, pricing and operational risks, and legal implementation and revised documentation risks. the fca in the u.k., which regulates libor, has announced that it will no longer compel panel banks to submit rates for libor after 2021. the publication of libor is therefore not guaranteed beyond 2021, and it appears highly likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021. at this time, no consensus exists as to which reference rate or rates or benchmarks may become acceptable alternatives to libor, although the alternative reference rates committee, a group of market participants convened by the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york, has identified the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) as the recommend alternative to libor. the selection of sofr as the alternative reference rate, however, currently presents certain market concerns because a term structure for sofr has not yet developed, and there is not yet a generally accepted methodology for adjusting sofr. accordingly, the withdrawal and replacement of libor may pose financial risks and uncertainties to our business. we also may face operational challenges adopting successor benchmarks. investment and performance risks poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has led, and could in the future lead, to a decrease in sales of our products and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. we can provide no assurance that past or present investment performance in our products will be indicative of future performance. if we fail, or appear to fail, to address successfully and promptly the underlying causes of poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing or continuing harm to our performance and our future business prospects would likely be negatively affected. 20 table of contents harm to our reputation may negatively impact our revenues and income. our reputation is critical to the success of our business. we believe that our brand names have been, and continue to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brands, like our business, are based in part on trust and confidence. if our brands or reputation are harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, our products, or our clients and products may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of our aum and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in our revenues and income. in addition, reputational harm may prevent us from attracting new clients or developing new business. global operational risks our completed acquisition of legg mason, inc. remains subject to integration risks. on july 31, 2020, we completed our acquisition of legg mason, inc. pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, and legg mason became a wholly-owned subsidiary of franklin. important ongoing integration-related risks related to our completed acquisition of legg mason include the risks that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including the realization of revenue, tax benefits, financial benefits or returns and expense and other synergies, may not be fully realized, or may take longer to realize than expected, and that the integration may cost more than expected. in addition, the covid-19 pandemic-related risks may result in unanticipated regulatory, planning and/or operational delays that may adversely impact the anticipated timeline and achievement of our ongoing integration goals. the ongoing integration of legg mason is a time-consuming and expensive process that, without adequate planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of legg mason or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could adversely impair our business and operations as noted above. our business operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks properly or comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to investors globally. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. many of our operations are complex and dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions effectively, which may occur across numerous markets and currencies at high volumes and frequencies. although we expend considerable resources on internal controls, supervision, technology and training in an effort to ensure that such transactions do not violate applicable guidelines, rules and regulations or adversely affect our clients, counterparties or us, our operations are ultimately dependent on our personnel, as well as others involved in our business, such as third-party vendors, providers and other intermediaries, and subject to potential human errors. our personnel and others involved in our business may, from time to time, make mistakes that are not always immediately detected, which may disrupt our operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or sanctions, litigation, or otherwise damage our reputation. in addition, any misrepresentation of our services and products in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications could also adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, are dependent on fees earned under investment management agreements that we have with our products and clients. our revenues could be adversely affected if such agreements representing a significant portion of our aum are terminated. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships ' liabilities. if we fail to perform and monitor our operations properly, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, or the circumvention of controls and policies, could have an adverse effect on our global operations, reputation and financial position. although we have adopted risk management, operational and financial controls and compliance policies, procedures and programs that are subject to regular review and update, we cannot ensure that these measures will enable us effectively to identify and manage internal and external risks including those related to fraudulent activity and dishonesty. we are subject to the risk that our personnel, contractors, vendors and other third parties may deliberately or recklessly circumvent or violate our controls to commit fraud against our business, products and/or client accounts, pay or solicit bribes, or otherwise act in ways inconsistent with our controls, policies, workplace culture and business principles. continued attempts to circumvent our policies and controls or repeated incidents involving violation of controls and policies, fraud or conflicts of interests could 21 table of contents negatively impact our business and reputation and result in adverse publicity, regulatory investigations and actions, legal proceedings and losses and adversely affect our operations, reputation, aum and financial results. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell our products, such as our funds and strategies, and offer our investment management and related services, in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to operate our business consistently and effectively. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. local regulatory environments may vary widely in terms of scope, adequacy and sophistication. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may vary widely and they may be inconsistent or less developed or mature than other more internationally focused distributors. growth of our international operations has involved and may continue to involve near-term increases in expenses, as well as additional capital costs, such as information systems and technology costs, and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs also may place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding, hiring and retaining additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain challenges as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or authorize products or maintain their authorizations in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. certain laws and regulations both inside and outside the u.s. have extraterritorial application. this may lead to duplicative or conflicting legal or regulatory burdens and additional costs and risks. for example, with respect to brexit, although the u.k. has now formally left the eu as of january 31, 2020, it is still unclear what final terms may be agreed to among the parties through the december 31, 2020 implementation period, and the ultimate impact on us. in addition, from time to time, we enter into joint ventures or take minority stakes in companies in which we typically do not have control. these investments may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling stakeholder or joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. the business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling stakeholder, joint venture partner or the entity itself may result in liability to us or harm to our reputation, or adversely affect the value of our investment in the entity. our focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of our products subjects us to increased exchange rate and market-specific political, economic or other risks that may adversely impact our revenues and income generated overseas. while we maintain a significant portion of our operations in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in asia-pacific, europe, middle east and africa, latin america and canada. as a result, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar have affected, and may in the future affect, our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, our situation may change in the future. appreciation of the u.s. dollar could in the future moderate revenues from managing our products internationally, or could affect relative investment performance of certain of our products invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with non-u.s. aum than with u.s. aum. consequently, downturns in international markets have in the past had, and could in the future have, a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from financial, economic, political and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. any ongoing and future business, economic, political or social unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, also may have 22 table of contents a lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our aum and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. competition and distribution risks we may review and pursue strategic transactions that could pose risks to our business. as part of our business strategy, we regularly consider, and have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be deemed material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. in addition, such transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of legg mason, and related transactions pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or personnel or could underperform relative to expectations. we also may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including with respect to revenue, tax benefits, financial benefits or returns, and expense and other synergies. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. entries into material transactions typically are announced publicly even though they may remain subject to numerous closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, and there is no assurance that any announced transaction will actually be consummated. future transactions also may further increase our leverage or, if we issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions, dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. failure to properly address the increased transformative pressures affecting the asset management industry could negatively impact our business. the asset management industry is facing transformative pressures and trends from a variety of different sources including increased fee pressure; a continued shift away from actively managed core equities and fixed income strategies towards alternative, passive and smart beta strategies; increased demands from clients and distributors for client engagement and services; a trend towards institutions developing fewer relationships and partners and reducing the number of investment managers they work with; increased regulatory activity and scrutiny of many aspects of the asset management industry, including transparency/unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, capital, liquidity, solvency, leverage, operational risk management, controls and compensation; addressing the key emerging markets in the world, such as china and india, which often have populations with different needs, preferences and horizons than the more developed u.s. and european markets; and advances in technology and increasing client interest in interacting digitally with their investment portfolios. as a result of the trends and pressures discussed above, the asset management industry is facing an increased level of disruption. if we are unable to adapt our strategy and business to address adequately these trends and pressures, we may be unable to meet client needs satisfactorily, our competitive position may weaken, and our business results and operations may be adversely affected. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and income. we compete with numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions. our products also compete with products offered by these competitors, as well as with real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and other products. the periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. further, although we may offer certain types of etfs, to the extent that there is a trend among existing or potential clients in favor of lower fee index and other etfs, it may favor our competitors who may offer such products that are more established or on a larger scale than we do. additionally, competing securities broker-dealers and banks, upon which we rely to distribute and sell certain of our funds and other products, also may sell their own proprietary funds and products, which could limit the distribution of our products. to the extent that existing or potential clients, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and income could decline. our ability to attract and retain aum is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our products, offering a mix of products and strategies that meets investor demands, and our ability to maintain our investment management fees and pricing structure at competitive levels. 23 table of contents increasing competition and other changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our income and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker-dealers, banks, investment advisers and other financial intermediaries. because we rely on third-party distribution and sales channels to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given by them to clients. increasing competition for these distribution and sales channels, and regulatory changes and initiatives, have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further cost increases in the future, or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our income, and consolidations in the broker-dealer or banking industries could also adversely impact our income. a failure to maintain our third-party distribution and sales channels, or a failure to maintain strong business relationships with our distributors and other intermediaries, may impair our distribution and sales operations. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through such third-party channels could have a negative effect on our level of aum and adversely impact our business. moreover, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to have access to the third-party financial intermediaries that currently distribute our products, or that we will continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. if several of the major financial advisers that distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our income. further, the standards of conduct and disclosure and reporting requirements, with respect to fees, products, services and possible conflicts of interest, applicable to broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries in the u.s., remain subject to change and enhancement pursuant to business and regulatory developments and requirements, including with respect to investor suitability obligations, enhanced investor protections for retail customers, and increased compliance requirements. in addition, the u.k., the netherlands and the eu, through mifid ii, have adopted regimes that ban, or may limit, the payment of commissions and other inducements to intermediaries in relation to certain sales to retail customers in those jurisdictions, and similar regimes are under consideration in several other jurisdictions. depending on their exact terms, such regimes may result in existing flows of business moving to less profitable channels or even to competitors providing substitutable products outside the regime. arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules related to the requirement that commissions reflect an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. the interpretation of the inducements rules has also resulted in major changes to how fund managers, including us, finance investment research with many firms, by opting to pay for third-party investment research for client accounts covered by mifid ii. third-party risks any failure of our third-party providers to fulfill their obligations, or our failure to maintain good relationships with our providers, could adversely impact our business. we currently, and may in the future, depend on a number of third-party providers to support various operational, administrative, market data, distribution, and other business needs of our company. in addition, we may, from time to time, transfer vendor contracts and services from one provider to another. if our third-party providers fail to deliver required services on a timely basis, or if we experience other negative service quality or relationship issues with our providers, we may be exposed to significant costs and/or operational difficulties, and our ability to conduct and grow our business may be impaired. in addition, we have outsourced certain administration services for our funds to third-party providers. such administrative and functional changes are costly and complex, and may expose us to heightened operational risks. any failure to mitigate such risks could result in reputational harm to us, as well as financial losses to us and our clients. the failure of any key provider or vendor to fulfill its obligations to us could result in outcomes inconsistent with our or our clients' objectives and requirements, result in legal liability and regulatory issues for us, and otherwise adversely impact us. we may be adversely affected if any of our third-party providers is subject to a successful cyber or security attack. due to our interconnectivity with third-party vendors, advisors, central agents, exchanges, clearing organizations and other financial institutions, we may be adversely affected if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other privacy or information security event, including those arising due to the use of mobile technology or a third-party cloud environment. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. our third-party applications include enterprise cloud storage and cloud computing application services provided and maintained by third-party vendors. any breach, suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption that could adversely impact 24 table of contents our business. our third-party applications may include confidential and proprietary data provided by vendors and by us, including personal employee and/or client data. technology and security risks our ability to manage and grow our business successfully can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate our varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems on a global basis, including in connection with our recent legg mason acquisition. moreover, adapting or developing the existing technology systems we use to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our technology continually, including our data processing, financial, accounting, shareholder servicing and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement new technology when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require significant capital spending, and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of the technology we use, which could negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, technology is subject to rapid advancements and changes and our competitors may, from time to time, implement newer technologies or more advanced platforms for their services and products, including digital advisers and other advanced electronic systems, which could adversely affect our business if we are unable to remain competitive. any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could disrupt our business and harm our operations and reputation. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the continuity and effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, management oversight and reporting framework, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them and contracted third-party systems. we use technology on a daily basis in our business to, among other things, support our business continuity and operations, process and transmit confidential communications, store and maintain data, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to our clients. any disruptions, inaccuracies, delays, theft, systems failures, data security or privacy breaches, or cyber or other security breaches in these and other processes could subject us to significant client dissatisfaction and losses and damage our reputation. we have been, and expect to continue to be, the subject of these types of risks, breaches and/or attacks, as well as attempts to co-opt our brand. although we take protective measures, including measures to secure and protect information through system security technology and our internal security procedures, we can provide no assurance that any of these measures will prove effective. the technology systems we use remain vulnerable to denial of service attacks, unauthorized access, computer viruses, potential human errors and other events and circumstances that may have a security impact, such as an external or internal hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals (including through the use of phishing attacks, malware, ransomware and other methods and activities maliciously designed to obtain and exploit confidential information and to cause system and service disruption and other damage) or our personnel or vendors inadvertently or recklessly causing us to release confidential information, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. potential system disruptions, failures or breaches of the technology we use or the security infrastructure we rely upon could result in: (i) material financial loss or costs, (ii) delays in clients' ability to access account information or in our ability to process transactions, (iii) the unauthorized disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client and business information, (iv) loss of valuable information, (v) breach of client and vendor contracts, (vi) liability for stolen assets, information or identity, (vii) remediation costs to repair damage caused by the failure or breach, (viii) additional security and organizational costs to mitigate against future incidents, (ix) reputational harm, (x) loss of confidence in our business and products, (xi) liability for failure to review and disclose applicable incidents or provide relevant updated disclosure properly and timely, (xii) regulatory investigations or actions, and/or (xiii) legal claims, litigation, and liability costs, any one or more of which may be material. moreover, loss or unauthorized disclosure or transfer of confidential and proprietary data or confidential customer identification information could further harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential data and personal information, resulting in increased costs or a decline in our revenues or common stock price. further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and sensitive information on our other mobile electronic devices, if such devices are stolen, misplaced or left unattended, they may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk, which may require us to incur additional administrative 25 table of contents costs and/or take remedial actions. in addition, the failure to manage and operate properly the data centers we use could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. our inability to recover successfully, should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, legal liability, and/or reputational harm. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, terrorist attack, public health crisis, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities and infrastructure, and the proper functioning of our technology, computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations that are critical to our business. see pandemic-related risks above for risks relating to covid-19. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our various back-up systems provide us with an advantage, should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how such a local or regional event may affect our personnel across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executives or personnel in our technology groups. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, information, technology or security limitations or breaches, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to recover successfully following a disaster or other business continuity problem, could adversely impact our business and operations. human capital risks we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly-skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the investment management industry remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to find, attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. global and/or local laws and regulations could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business develops, we may need to increase the number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals and increase our key management succession planning, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenues. there is no assurance that we will be successful in finding, attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. in addition, due to the global nature of our business, our key personnel may, from time to time, have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism, and we may be unable to ensure the safety of our personnel traveling to such regions. cash management risks our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. if we are unable to obtain cash, financing or access to the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets also may impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and may have an adverse effect on investors ' willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and/or the valuation levels of equity markets. 26 table of contents we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to fund our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions that may limit their ability to transfer assets to their parent companies. our financial condition could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute assets to us. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations. there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory and compliance environments in which we operate. our business is subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and/or conflicting, and frequently changing and increasing rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations, around the world. political and electoral changes, developments and conflicts have in the past introduced, and may in the future introduce, additional uncertainty. our regulatory and compliance obligations impose significant operational and cost burdens on us and cover a broad range of requirements related to financial reporting and other disclosure matters, securities and other financial instruments, investment and advisory matters, accounting, tax, compensation, ethics, intellectual property, data protection, privacy, sanctions programs, and escheatment requirements. we may be adversely affected by a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and changes in the countries in which we operate. for a more extensive discussion of certain laws, regulations (including certain pending regulatory reforms) and regulators to which we are subject, see item 1 business regulation in part i of this annual report. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. the laws and regulations applicable to our business generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. over the years, the u.s. federal corporate governance and securities laws, and laws in other jurisdictions, have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by various legislation. as we continue to address our legal and regulatory requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded requirements, we may need to expend a substantial amount of additional time, costs and resources. regulatory reforms may add further complexity to our business and operations and could require us to alter our investment management services and related activities, which could be costly, impede our growth and adversely impact our aum, revenues and income. regulatory reforms also may impact our clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in a manner adverse to our business. certain key regulatory reforms in the u.s. and other jurisdictions that may impact or relate to our business, and may cause us to incur additional obligations, include regulatory matters related to systemically important financial institutions, derivatives and other financial products, privacy and data protection, retail and other investor protections, and other asset management disclosure and compliance requirements. the impacts of these and other regulatory reforms on us, now and in the future, could be significant. we expect that the regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to continue to incur additional compliance and administrative burdens and costs. any inability to meet applicable requirements within the required timeframes may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by governments and/or regulators that could adversely impact our broader business objectives. global regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made compliance in the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. as in the u.s., regulatory and legislative actions outside the u.s. have been augmented substantially and made more complex by measures such as the eu's alternative investment fund managers directive and mifid ii. further, ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. moreover, the adoption of new laws, regulations or standards and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations or standards have directly affected, and will continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to and related costs we must incur in meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. we may be required to continue to invest significant additional management 27 table of contents time and resources to address new regulations being adopted pursuant to mifid ii and other laws. for example, mifid ii requires the unbundling of research and execution charges for trading. the industry's response to the unbundling rules is still evolving and could lead to increased research costs. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. the eu's gdpr strengthened and unified data protection rules for individuals within the eu. gdpr also addresses export of personal data outside the eu. the primary objectives of gdpr are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation within the eu. compliance with the stringent data protection rules under gdpr requires an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. the failure to comply properly with gdpr rules on a timely basis and to maintain ongoing compliance with such rules may subject us to enforcement proceedings and significant fines and costs. for example, a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of our annual global revenues, whichever is higher. compliance activities to address these and other new legal requirements have required, and will continue to require, us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. finally, any further regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the investment management industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or operating in financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our clients. failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any of our jurisdictions could result in civil liability, criminal liability and/or sanctions against us, including fines, censures, injunctive relief, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses or charters, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, the regulatory environments of the jurisdictions where we conduct our business, or where our products are organized or sold, are complex, uncertain and subject to change. local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, investment, legal and compliance personnel. in recent years, the regulatory environments in which we operate have seen significant increased and evolving regulations, which have imposed and may continue to impose additional compliance and operational requirements and costs on us in the applicable jurisdictions. regulators could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our services and products in their respective markets, or we may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes, and are subject to ongoing tax audits, in various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may at times materially impact our effective tax rate. further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the oecd has adopted certain common reporting standards aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. such standards may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs, and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution. 28 table of contents regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, litigation and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. we operate in a highly regulated industry and routinely receive and respond to regulatory and governmental requests for documents or other information, subpoenas, examinations and investigations in connection with our business activities. further, regulatory or governmental examinations or investigations that have been inactive could become active. in addition, from time to time, we are named as a party in litigation. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and standard form of director indemnification agreement are obligated under certain conditions, or may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or personnel against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. even if claims made against us are without merit, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. eventual financial exposures from and expenses incurred relating to any examinations, investigations, litigation, and/or settlements could adversely impact our aum, increase costs and/or negatively impact our profitability and financial results. examinations, investigations, allegations, findings or judgments of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in litigation against us, or settlements with respect thereto, could affect our regulatory licenses, reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. for a discussion of certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters in which we are involved, see the legal proceedings section in note 16 commitments and contingencies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report. our contractual obligations may subject us to indemnification costs and liability to third parties. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into contracts with third parties, including, without limitation, clients, vendors, and other service providers, that contain a variety of representations and warranties and that provide for indemnifications by us in certain circumstances. pursuant to such contractual arrangements, we may be subject to indemnification costs and liability to third parties if, for example, we breach any material obligations under the agreements or agreed standards of care, or in the event such third parties have certain legal claims asserted against them. the terms of these indemnities vary from contract to contract, and future indemnification claims against us could negatively impact our financial condition. failure to protect our intellectual property may negatively impact our business. although we take steps to safeguard and protect our intellectual property, including but not limited to our trademarks, patents, copyrights and trade secrets, there can be no assurance that we will be able effectively to protect our rights. if our intellectual property rights were violated, we could be subject to economic and reputational harm that could negatively impact our business and competitiveness in the marketplace. conversely, while we take efforts to avoid infringement of the intellectual property of third parties, if we are deemed to infringe on a third party's intellectual property rights it could expose us to litigation risks, license fees and reputational harm. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our market risk from assets and liabilities of cips is limited to that of our direct equity investments in them and investment management fees earned from them. accordingly, the assets and liabilities of cips are excluded from the discussion below. aum market price risk we are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of aum. changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of aum to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average aum would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. such a change for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2020 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $366.5 million . interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sponsored funds that invest in debt securities, which were $1,338.4 million at september 30, 2020 . our exposure to interest rate risks from these investments is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the funds. the investment mandates of the remaining funds consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. we had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at september 30, 2020 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. as of september 30, 2020 , we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sponsored funds that invest in debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next 12 months. foreign currency exchange risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while the majority of our revenues are earned in the u.s., we also provide services and earn revenues in europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific and americas excluding u.s. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the u.s. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. the exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the euro, pound sterling, indian rupee and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for 19% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2020 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the u.s. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in u.s. dollars and held by non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for 6% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2020 . changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 63 table of contents a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the u.s. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the u.s. dollar assets. such a weakening as of september 30, 2020 would result in a $76.7 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive income and a $23.0 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). market valuation risk we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. to mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2020 . if such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from investments measured at fair value and direct investments in cips would result in a $129.0 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. (in millions) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease investments, at fair value $ 504.8 $ 555.3 $ 454.3 direct investments in cips 785.3 863.8 706.8 total $ 1,290.1 $ 1,419.1 $ 1,161.1 64 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors. we are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing regulation domestically and abroad. our investment management and related services business and our banking/ finance business are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing regulation in the united states and abroad, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, either in the united states or abroad, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an often ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. we are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, the nasd, nyse and pcx, and to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, by foreign regulations and regulators, such as the u.k. listing authority. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, as amended, and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940, as amended, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries, both in the united states and abroad, must comply with a myriad of complex and often changing u.s. and/or foreign regulations, some of which may conflict, including complex u.s. and non-u.s. tax 26 table of contents regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board, or frb, and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bank holding company act of 1956 and the gramm-leach-bliley act. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the fdic and new york state banking department, while another of our subsidiaries is subject to oversight by the office of thrift supervision. the laws and regulations of these regulators generally impose restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized and recently expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. moreover, any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that impact our broader business. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms, particularly those specifically focused on the mutual fund industry, are making the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. during the past five years, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. moreover, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased and these outlays have also increased as we expand our business into various non-u.s. jurisdictions. for example, in the past few years following the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, new rules of the sec, the nyse, pcx and nasd were promulgated and other rules revised. among other things, these new laws, rules and regulations have necessitated us to make changes to our corporate governance and public disclosure policies, procedures and practices and our registered investment companies and investment advisers have been required to make similar changes. compliance activities to meet these new requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, including without limitation substantial efforts to conduct evaluations required to ensure compliance with the management certification and attestation requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, current and pending regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets. any significant limitation or failure of our software applications and other technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, our technology systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, 27 table of contents computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, we have outsourced to a single vendor management of our data center and distributed server operations, and this vendor also is responsible for our disaster recovery systems. a failure by this vendor to continue to manage our data center or support our servers and our disaster recovery systems adequately in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business. moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third party failures. potential system failures or breaches and the cost necessary to correct them could result in material financial loss, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous foreign countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face various ongoing challenges to ensure that we have sufficient resources, procedures and controls in place to address and ensure that our operations abroad operate consistently and effectively. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. in a tightening labor market, competition for qualified, motivated and highly skilled executives, professional and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and departure 28 table of contents of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. moreover, our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. the loss of the services of key personnel or our failure to attract replacement or additional qualified personnel could negatively affect our financial performance. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. over the past decade, a significant number of new asset management firms and mutual funds have been established, increasing competition. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product offerings, service quality, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and recent regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, if one or more of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. the amount or mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations and could negatively impact our revenues and income. we have become subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the domestic and global financial and equity markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange 29 table of contents rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of investment management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may impact negatively on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subject us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south america, africa and australia. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our foreign operations. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. stabilization or appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from sales of investment products internationally. separately, investment management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with u.s. assets under management. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the investment management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor future performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. the franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their investment management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, 30 table of contents motivations or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which are subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses are subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure; and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business, both domestically and abroad, depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting and trading systems. this need could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. recent disaster recovery efforts, such as in response to hurricane wilma on our fort lauderdale, florida operations, have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we are constantly assessing and taking steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including our asset value, credit worthiness and the market value of our stock. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors including our asset value, our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock. similarly, our ability to securitize and hedge future loan portfolios and credit card receivables, and to obtain continued financing for certain class c shares, is also subject to the market perception of those assets, finance rates offered by competitors, and the general market for private debt. if we are unable to obtain these funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. 31 table of contents certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to market-specific political, economic or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental polices, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. foreign trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than the u.s. and other established markets. our revenues, earnings and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our investment management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates in connection with automobile sales or in some cases zero interest rates. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. future sales of our common stock in the public market, such as upon conversion of our outstanding convertible securities, could adversely affect our stock price. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock or the availability for future sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. for example, in connection with our may 2001 offering of convertible notes, we filed a registration statement on form s-3 with the sec, which was subsequently declared effective, to register, among other things, approximately 8.2 million shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes. holders may convert their convertible notes prior to maturity into 9.3604 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the convertible notes, subject to adjustment, following the occurrence of certain specified triggering events, including if, during any calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter is more than a specified percentage, initially 120% as of the third quarter of fiscal year 2001 and declining 0.084% each quarter thereafter, of the accreted conversion price per share of our common stock on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter. based on this formula, holders may convert their convertible notes during the quarter ending december 31, 2005 because, during the quarter ended september 30, 2005, the closing sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter was more than $78.34 (118.57% of $66.07, which was the accreted conversion price per share of our common stock on the last trading day of the quarter). sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing stockholders pursuant to an effective registration statement or under rule 144, through the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or the conversion of convertible securities, such as our convertible notes, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 32 table of contents civil litigation arising out of or relating to previously settled governmental investigations or other matters, governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations and the legal risks associated with our business could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. we have been named in shareholder class action and other lawsuits, many of which arise out of or relate to previously settled governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and while we intend to vigorously defend against them, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. it is also possible that we may be named in additional civil or governmental actions similar to those already instituted. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain officers and directors in some instances we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange and equity and commodity prices. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, trade accounts receivable, investment securities, deposits and other debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our banking/finance operating segment is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its loans receivable, debt securities held, and deposit liabilities. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources. our investment management and related services operating segment is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily through its investment in debt securities and its outstanding debt. we minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. in addition, we seek to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on our outstanding debt by entering into financing transactions that ensure an appropriate mix of debt at fixed and variable interest rates. at september 30, 2005, we have considered the potential impact of a 2% movement in market interest rates in relation to the banking/finance segment interest earning assets, net of interest-bearing liabilities, total debt outstanding and our portfolio of debt securities, individually and in the aggregate. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in either scenario. we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our foreign operations. we operate primarily in the united states, but also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south america, africa and australia. our exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimized since a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. we are exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that are carried at fair value and through investments held by majority-owned sponsored investment products that we consolidate. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio. our exposure to equity price fluctuations is also minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions. the following is a summary of the effect that a 10% increase or decrease in equity prices would have on our financial instruments subject to equity price fluctuations at september 30, 2005. (in thousands) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease current investment securities, trading $ 254,750 $ 280,225 $ 229,275 investment securities, available-for-sale sponsored investment products 418,120 459,932 376,308 equities 3,366 3,703 3,029 total current $ 676,236 $ 743,860 $ 608,612 non-current investment in equity-method investees $ 213,995 $ 235,394 $ 192,596 equities and other 101,219 111,341 91,097 total non-current $ 315,214 $ 346,735 $ 283,693 68 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors. we are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing regulation domestically and abroad. our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing regulation in the united states and abroad, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has 27 table of contents focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, either in the united states or abroad, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an often ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. we are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, the nasd and the nyse, and to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, by foreign regulations and regulators, such as the u.k. listing authority. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, as amended, and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940, as amended, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries, both in the united states and abroad, must comply with a myriad of complex and often changing u.s. and/or foreign regulations, some of which may conflict, including complex u.s. and non-u.s. tax regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board, or frb, and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the gramm-leach-bliley act. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the fdic and new york state banking department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the office of thrift supervision and various state regulators. the laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized and recently expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. moreover, any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that impact our broader business. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms are making the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. moreover, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased and these outlays have also increased as we expand our business into various non-u.s. 28 table of contents jurisdictions. for example, in the past few years following the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, new rules of the sec, nyse and nasd were promulgated and other rules revised. among other things, these new requirements have necessitated us to make changes to our corporate governance and public disclosure policies, procedures and practices and our registered investment companies and investment advisers have been required to make similar changes. in addition, complex accounting and financial reporting requirements have been implemented in the past several years pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules of the sec and the public company accounting oversight board, which apply across differing legal entities within our corporate structure and varied geographical and/or jurisdictional areas in which we operate. compliance activities to meet these new requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, including without limitation substantial efforts to conduct evaluations required to ensure compliance with the management certification and attestation requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets. our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment we anticipate with respect to foreign earnings we have repatriated is based on current interpretations of the american jobs creation act of 2004 and timely and permitted use of such amounts in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. in september 2006, we completed our planned repatriation into the united states of approximately $2.1 billion of undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the jobs act ). however, our ability to maintain the anticipated beneficial tax treatment with respect to these foreign earnings is subject to current interpretations and compliance with the jobs act (including internal revenue code section 965), as well as the rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the internal revenue service and the united states treasury department. moreover, changes in the interpretation of these rules and regulations may have an effect on our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment with respect to our repatriated foreign earnings. our inability to timely complete, to appropriately use repatriated amounts for permitted purposes or to otherwise satisfy the requirements of our planned repatriation could also have a negative impact on the scope and breadth of our anticipated tax treatment with respect to such amounts. any significant limitation or failure of our software applications and other technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation. further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause 29 table of contents temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, we have outsourced to a single vendor the operation of our u.s. data centers, which includes responsibility for processing data and managing the centers. this vendor is also responsible for our disaster recovery systems. a failure by this vendor to continue to manage our u.s. data centers and our disaster recovery systems adequately in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business. moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third party failures. technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced internet platforms for their products which could affect our business. potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous foreign countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face various ongoing challenges to ensure that we have sufficient resources, procedures and controls in place to address and ensure that our operations abroad operate consistently and effectively. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. as we grow, we face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. in a tightening labor market, competition for qualified, motivated and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to 30 table of contents such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. over the past decade, a significant number of new asset management firms and mutual funds have been established, increasing competition. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product offerings, service quality, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sponsored investment products that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and recent regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, if one or more of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. the amount or mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations and could negatively impact our revenues and income. we have become subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the domestic and global financial and equity markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the 31 table of contents mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subject us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, canada, europe, asia, south america, africa, australia and mexico. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our foreign operations. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. stabilization or appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from sales of investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with u.s. assets under management. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, as our business grows in non-u.s. markets, any business, social and political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor future performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. the franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce 32 table of contents amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure; and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business, both domestically and abroad, depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in particular areas, such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we are constantly assessing and taking steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. 33 table of contents certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to market-specific political, economic or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental polices, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. foreign trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than the u.s. and other established markets. our revenues, earnings and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or in some cases zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. civil litigation arising out of or relating to previously settled governmental investigations or other matters, governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations and the legal risks associated with our business could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. we have been named in shareholder class action, derivative, and other lawsuits, many of which arise out of or relate to previously settled governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and intends to vigorously defend against them, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. it is also possible that we may be named in additional civil or governmental actions similar to those already instituted. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain officers and directors in some instances we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. 34 table of contents our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including our asset value, credit worthiness and the market value of our stock. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors including our asset value, our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock. similarly, our ability to securitize and hedge future loan portfolios and credit card receivables, and to obtain continued financing for certain class c shares, is also subject to the market perception of those assets, finance rates offered by competitors, and the general market for private debt. if we are unable to obtain these funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange and equity prices. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, trade accounts receivable, investment securities, deposits and other debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. our banking/finance operating segment is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its loans receivable, debt securities held, and deposit liabilities. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources. our investment management and related services operating segment is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily through its investment in debt securities and its outstanding debt. we minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. in addition, we seek to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on our outstanding debt by entering into financing transactions that ensure an appropriate mix of debt at fixed and variable interest rates. at september 30, 2006, we have considered the potential impact of a 2% movement in market interest rates in relation to the banking/finance operating segment interest earning assets, net of interest-bearing liabilities, total debt outstanding and our portfolio of debt securities, individually and in the aggregate. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. our foreign operations expose us to foreign currency exchange risk. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in canada, the bahamas, europe, asia, south and central america, africa and australia. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized since a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. 73 table of contents we are exposed to equity price fluctuations through securities we hold that are carried at fair value and through investments held by majority-owned sponsored investment products that we consolidate, which are also carried at fair value. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio. our exposure to equity price fluctuations is also minimized as we sponsor and invest in a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which allows us to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market(s) or region(s). the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in equity prices on our financial instruments subject to equity price fluctuations at september 30, 2006. (in thousands) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease current investment securities, trading $ 382,053 $ 420,258 $ 343,848 investment securities, available-for-sale 552,211 607,432 496,990 total current $ 934,264 $ 1,027,690 $ 840,838 banking/finance investment securities, available-for-sale $ 171,632 $ 188,795 $ 154,469 non-current investment in equity-method investees $ 227,591 $ 250,350 $ 204,832 equities and other 243,962 268,358 219,566 total non-current $ 471,553 $ 518,708 $ 424,398 74 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors. we are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the united states and abroad. our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and often complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the united states and abroad, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, either in the united states or abroad, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an often ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. we are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, finra and the nyse, and to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, by non-u.s. regulations and 27 table of contents regulators, such as the u.k. listing authority. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, as amended, and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940, as amended, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries, both in the united states and abroad, must comply with a myriad of complex and often changing u.s. and/or non-u.s. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, including complex u.s. and non-u.s. tax regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board, or frb, and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the gramm-leach-bliley act. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the federal deposit insurance corporation ( the fdic ) and new york state banking department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the office of thrift supervision and various state regulators. the laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized and recently expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. moreover, any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that impact our broader business. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. moreover, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. these outlays have also increased as we expand our business into various non-u.s. jurisdictions. for example, in the past few years following the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, new rules of the sec, nyse and finra were promulgated and other rules revised. among other things, these new requirements have necessitated us to make changes to our corporate governance and public disclosure policies, procedures and practices and our registered investment companies and investment advisers have been required to make similar changes. in addition, complex accounting and financial reporting requirements have been implemented in the past several years pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules of the sec and the public company accounting oversight board, which apply across different legal entities within our corporate structure and varied geographical and/or jurisdictional areas in which we operate. compliance activities to meet these new requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, including without limitation substantial efforts to conduct evaluations 28 table of contents required to ensure compliance with the management certification and attestation requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets. our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment we anticipate with respect to non-u.s. earnings we have repatriated is based on current interpretations of the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the jobs act ) and timely and permitted use of such amounts in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. in september 2006, we completed our planned repatriation into the united states of approximately $2.1 billion of undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. however, our ability to maintain the anticipated beneficial tax treatment with respect to these non-u.s. earnings is subject to current interpretations and compliance with the jobs act (including internal revenue code section 965), as well as the rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the internal revenue service and the united states treasury department. moreover, changes in the interpretation of these rules and regulations may have an effect on our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment with respect to our repatriated non-u.s. earnings. our inability to timely complete, to appropriately use repatriated amounts for permitted purposes or to otherwise satisfy the requirements of our planned repatriation could also have a negative impact on the scope and breadth of our anticipated tax treatment with respect to such amounts. any significant limitation or failure of our software applications and other technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, we have outsourced to a single vendor the operation of our u.s. data centers, which includes responsibility for processing data and managing the centers. this vendor is also responsible for the vast majority of our disaster recovery systems. a failure by this vendor to continue to manage our u.s. data centers and our disaster recovery systems adequately in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business. moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology 29 table of contents is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced internet platforms for their products which could affect our business. potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face various ongoing challenges to ensure that we have sufficient resources, procedures and controls in place to address and ensure that our operations abroad operate consistently and effectively. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. as we grow, we face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures in which we may not have control. these investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. in a tightening labor market, competition for qualified, motivated and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the 30 table of contents departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. over the past decade, a significant number of new asset management firms and mutual funds have been established, increasing competition. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sponsored investment products that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. changes in the distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and recent regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, if one or more of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. the amount or mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations and could negatively impact our revenues and income. we have become subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the domestic and global financial and equity markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by political, financial or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. our investment management services 31 table of contents revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia, canada, europe, latin america, africa and australia. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. stabilization or appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from sales of investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with u.s. assets under management. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, as our business grows in non-u.s. markets, any business, social and political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor future performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. we believe that our franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us 32 table of contents to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business, both domestically and abroad, depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in particular areas, such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to market-specific political, economic or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and 33 table of contents income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. our revenues, earnings and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, certain of which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or, in some cases, zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. civil litigation arising out of or relating to previously settled governmental investigations or other matters, governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations and the legal risks associated with our business could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. we have been named as a defendant in shareholder class action, derivative, and other lawsuits, many of which arise out of or relate to previously settled governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and intends to vigorously defend against them, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. it is also possible that we may be named as a defendant in additional civil or governmental actions similar to those already instituted. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain officers and directors in some instances we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including our asset value, credit worthiness and the market value of our stock. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon 34 table of contents factors including our asset value, our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock. similarly, our ability to securitize and hedge future loan portfolios and credit card receivables, and to obtain continued financing for certain class c shares, is also subject to the market perception of those assets, finance rates offered by competitors, and the general market for private debt. if we are unable to obtain these funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk: the potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange and equity prices. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, trade accounts receivable, investment securities, deposits and other debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. 60 table of contents our banking/finance operating segment is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its loans receivable, debt securities held, and deposit liabilities. in our banking/finance operating segment, we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources and, from time to time, we may enter into interest-rate swap agreements to mitigate interest rate exposure (see note 1 significant accounting policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this form 10-k). our investment management and related services operating segment is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily through its investment in debt securities and its outstanding debt. we minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. in addition, we seek to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on our outstanding debt by entering into financing transactions that ensure an appropriate mix of debt at fixed and variable interest rates. at september 30, 2007, we have considered the potential impact of a 2% movement in market interest rates in relation to the banking/finance segment interest earning assets, net of interest-bearing liabilities, total debt outstanding and our portfolio of debt securities, individually and in the aggregate. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in either scenario. we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. we operate primarily in the united states, but also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia, canada, europe, latin america, africa and australia. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized since a significant portion of these revenues and associated expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value and investments held by majority-owned sponsored investment products that we consolidate, which are also carried at fair value. to mitigate this risk, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements (see note 1 significant accounting policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this form 10-k). our exposure to market valuation risks are also minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions. the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the market values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2007. (in thousands) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease current investment securities, trading $ 365,968 $ 402,565 $ 329,371 investment securities, available-for-sale 539,051 592,956 485,146 total current $ 905,019 $ 995,521 $ 814,517 banking/finance investment securities, available-for-sale $ 160,223 $ 176,245 $ 144,201 non-current investments, other $ 523,901 $ 576,291 $ 471,511 61 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors. we are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and 24 table of contents practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, finra and the nyse. to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, we are subject to regulation by non-u.s. regulations and regulators, such as the u.k. financial services authority, and u.s. regulations and regulators such as the department of justice and the sec with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the advisers act and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries, which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries must comply with a myriad of complex and changing u.s. and/or non-u.s. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board (the frb ) and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the gramm-leach-bliley act. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the fdic and new york state banking department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the ots and various state regulators. the laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and recently expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. moreover, any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that could impact our broader business. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. moreover, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. these outlays have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. compliance 25 table of contents activities to meet these new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets. the amount and mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations and could negatively impact our revenues and income. we have become subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the financial and equity markets, including changes due to the recent volatility in global financial markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment we anticipate with respect to non-u.s. earnings we have repatriated is based on current interpretations of the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the jobs act ) and permitted use of such amounts in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. in september 2006, we completed our planned repatriation into the united states of approximately $2.1 billion of undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. however, our ability to maintain the anticipated beneficial tax treatment with respect to these non-u.s. earnings is subject to current interpretations and compliance with the jobs act (including internal revenue code section 965), as well as the rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the internal revenue service and the united states treasury department. moreover, changes in the interpretation of these rules and regulations may have an effect on our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment with respect to our repatriated non-u.s. earnings. our inability to appropriately use repatriated amounts for permitted purposes or to otherwise satisfy the requirements of our planned repatriation could also have a negative impact on the scope and breadth of our anticipated tax treatment with respect to such amounts. 26 table of contents any significant limitation or failure of our software applications and other technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, we have outsourced to a single vendor the operation of our u.s. data centers, which includes responsibility for processing data and managing the centers. this vendor is also responsible for the vast majority of our disaster recovery systems. a failure by this vendor to continue to manage our u.s. data centers and our disaster recovery systems adequately in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business. moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced internet platforms for their products which could affect our business. potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. as we grow, we face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements 27 table of contents while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures in which we may not have control. these investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage, and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. over the past decade, a significant number of new asset management firms and mutual funds have been established, increasing competition. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sponsored investment products that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. 28 table of contents changes in the distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and recent regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, recent consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. moreover, if one or more of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia, canada, europe, latin america, africa, and australia. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. stabilization or appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from sales of investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with u.s. assets under management. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, as our business grows in non-u.s. markets, any business, economic, social or political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. we believe that our franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, 29 table of contents like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations, or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or 30 table of contents other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to significant market-specific political, economic, or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. our revenues, earnings, and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, certain of which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or, in some cases, zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, civil litigation relating to previously-settled regulatory and governmental investigations, and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain officers and directors in some instances, we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers, or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits, as well as in fund derivative lawsuits, which relate to previously settled regulatory and governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and intends to defend against them vigorously, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. 31 table of contents our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including our asset value, credit worthiness and the market value of our stock. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors including our asset value, our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock. similarly, our ability to securitize and hedge future loan portfolios and credit card receivables, and to obtain continued external sales commission financing for certain class b and c shares, is also subject to the market perception of those assets, finance rates offered by competitors, and the general market for private debt. if we are unable to obtain these funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. the current levels of unprecedented volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. continued volatility in the global financial markets could have an adverse affect on investors willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of equity markets. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner our business could be adversely impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange and equity prices. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities, deposits and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. global markets have continued to experience unprecedented volatility, and a challenging business climate is forecast for the foreseeable future. market conditions have resulted in a significant reduction in our assets under management, which directly impacts our revenues and net income. a continued economic downturn and volatility in the global financial markets could also significantly affect the estimates, judgments, and assumptions used in the valuation of our financial instruments. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily through our loans receivable, investment in debt securities, deposit liabilities, variable funding notes and other outstanding debt. we monitor the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources and, from time to time, we may enter into interest-rate swap agreements to mitigate interest rate exposure arising from the loans receivable portfolio and variable funding note liabilities. we minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. in addition, we seek to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on our outstanding debt by entering into financing transactions that ensure an appropriate mix of debt at fixed and variable interest rates. at september 30, 2008, we have considered the potential impact of a 2% movement in market interest rates on interest earning assets, net of interest-bearing liabilities, total debt outstanding and our portfolio of debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations, for each of these categories or in the aggregate. we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia-pacific, canada and europe. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized since a significant portion of these revenues are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value and investments held by sponsored investment products that we consolidate, which are also carried at fair value. to mitigate these risks, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. our exposure to market valuation risks is also minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which allows us to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market(s) or region(s). 58 table of contents the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the market values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2008. (in thousands) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease current investment securities, trading $ 356,408 $ 392,049 $ 320,767 investment securities, available-for-sale 600,146 660,160 540,131 total current $ 956,554 $ 1,052,209 $ 860,898 banking/finance investment securities, trading $ 111,607 $ 122,768 $ 100,446 investment securities, available-for-sale 320,910 353,001 288,819 total banking/finance $ 432,517 $ 475,769 $ 389,265 non-current investment securities, available-for-sale $ 155,295 $ 170,824 $ 139,766 investments in equity method investees and other 328,247 361,072 295,422 total non-current $ 483,542 $ 531,896 $ 435,188 59 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility and disruption during the past fiscal year. although global market conditions have shown some stabilization and improvement, the decline in global market conditions has in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management, revenues and income, and future declines may negatively impact our performance. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives 23 table of contents or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations, and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. the amount and mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our assets under management may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive the majority of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services. the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of assets under management. any decrease in the value or amount of our assets under management because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. the funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. the company, in its discretion, may also provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension 24 table of contents or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority and the new york stock exchange. to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, we are subject to regulation by non-u.s. regulations and regulators, such as the u.k. financial services authority, and u.s. regulations and regulators such as the department of justice and the sec with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940 and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act of 1940, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries must comply with a myriad of complex and changing u.s. and/or non-u.s. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal reserve board (the frb ) and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the gramm-leach-bliley act. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the federal deposit insurance corporation and new york state banking department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the office of thrift supervision and various state regulators. the laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that could impact our broader business. moreover, being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which are not subject to such requirements. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the usa patriot act of 2001. moreover, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. these outlays have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. compliance activities to meet these new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, 25 table of contents and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our customers. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by the obama administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment we anticipate with respect to non-u.s. earnings we have repatriated is based on current interpretations of the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the jobs act ) and permitted use of such amounts in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. in september 2006, we completed our planned repatriation into the united states of undistributed earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries in accordance with our domestic reinvestment plan and the jobs act. however, our ability to maintain the anticipated beneficial tax treatment with respect to these non-u.s. earnings is subject to current interpretations and compliance with the jobs act (including internal revenue code section 965), as well as the rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the internal revenue service and the united states treasury department. moreover, changes in the interpretation of these rules and regulations may have an effect on our ability to maintain the beneficial tax treatment with respect to our repatriated non-u.s. earnings. our inability to appropriately use repatriated amounts for permitted purposes or to otherwise satisfy the requirements of our planned repatriation could also have a negative impact on the scope and breadth of our anticipated tax treatment with respect to such amounts. any significant limitation or failure of our software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or 26 table of contents other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, although we currently outsource to a single third-party vendor the operation of our u.s. data centers, we are revising our operations such that the majority of the services currently performed by the vendor will be performed by us and by a separate third-party vendor in the future. the failure by the current vendor to provide adequate transition support services in connection with the termination and transition of their services, or the failure by us or the new third-party vendor to adequately perform the services performed by the current vendor, could have an adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced internet platforms for their products, which could affect our business. potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. our investment management business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our sponsored investment products ). our investment management and related services include fund administration, shareholder services, transfer agency, underwriting, distribution, custodial, trustee and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. in addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our investment management operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. as we grow, we face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, 27 table of contents such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures in which we may not have control. these investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage, and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. the periodic establishment of new asset management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face in our business. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sponsored investment products that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. 28 table of contents changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and recent regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, recent consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia, canada, europe, latin america, africa, and australia. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. however, depreciation of the u.s. dollar could positively affect our revenues from managing investment products internationally. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, as our business grows in non-u.s. markets, any business, economic, social or political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. we believe that our franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, 29 table of contents like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations, or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or 30 table of contents other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to significant market-specific political, economic, or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. our revenues, earnings, and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, civil litigation relating to previously-settled regulatory and governmental investigations, and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain officers and directors in some instances, we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers, or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in mutual fund shareholder class action and fund derivative lawsuits, as well as in a corporate derivative lawsuit, that relate to previously settled regulatory and governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and intends to defend against them vigorously, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived credit worthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our 31 table of contents borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and have an adverse affect on investors willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of equity markets. if we are unable to obtain funds and financing, or access the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, certain of which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or, in some cases, zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to remain well capitalized, and liquidity needs could affect our banking business. our bank and thrift subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and supervision, which includes minimum regulatory capital standards. franklin is also subject to minimum regulatory capital standards because it is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered with the frb under the bank holding company act of 1956. franklin and its bank and thrift subsidiaries are currently well capitalized under applicable guidelines. however, our business could be negatively affected if franklin or its bank or thrift subsidiaries failed to remain well capitalized. for example, because our bank and thrift subsidiaries are well capitalized and we otherwise qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. loss of financial holding company status would require that we either cease these broader activities or divest our bank subsidiaries if we desire to continue such activities. the banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels. in addition, liquidity needs could affect our banking business, which may be subject to an unanticipated large number of withdrawals as a result of a number of factors, such as changed or unstable economic conditions, adverse trends or events, business closings and lay-offs, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, and returns available to clients on alternative investments. our banking subsidiaries may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, such as the sale of investment securities, federal home loan bank ( fhlb ) advances and federal funds lines to enable them to meet such withdrawal demands. these secondary sources may not be sufficient to meet liquidity needs. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries earnings and business considerations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61risk factors 24 risk factors. volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results. the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption. although global market conditions have shown some stabilization and improvement, the decline in global market conditions has in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management, revenues and income, and future declines may negatively impact our performance. such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our results of operations. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations, and we may be subject to additional constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. the amount and mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations . fluctuations in the amount and mix of our assets under management may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. we derive the majority of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services. the level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of assets under management. any decrease in the value or amount of our assets under management because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. we are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other 24 table of contents instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. declines in these markets have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our assets under management. the funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash to settle these redemptions, or settle in-kind with securities held in the applicable fund. the company, in its discretion, may also provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such event. our investment management services revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and vary with the nature of the account or product managed. a decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our assets under management to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and u.s. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as in the u.s. we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. on the other hand, increases in interest rates, in particular if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as any uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may have a negative impact on our fixed-income products as rising interest rates or interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return on many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. any decrease in the level of our assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income. we are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the reform act ). the reform act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, is expected to impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. due to the complexity and broad scope of the reform act and time required for regulatory implementation, we are not able to predict at this time the specific requirements that will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us pursuant to the reform act, or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on our business. we will continue to review and evaluate the reform act and the extent of its impact on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation are adopted. financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. while management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and earnings. 25 table of contents we are subject to u.s. federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the sec, finra and the nyse. to the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the united states, we are subject to regulation by non-u.s. regulations and regulators, such as the u.k. financial services authority, and u.s. regulations and regulators such as the department of justice and the sec with respect to the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977. certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the sec under the advisers act and many of our funds are registered with the sec under the investment company act, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. our subsidiaries must comply with a myriad of complex and changing u.s. and/or non-u.s. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-u.s. jurisdictions, the rules and regulations of these non-u.s. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations. in addition, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the frb and are subject to the restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions of the bhc act, as amended, and the glb act. the provisions of the reform act are expected to have an impact on our banking/finance business. significant aspects of the reform act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts, holding companies and related institutions, including with respect to regulation and supervision in the banking industry, and the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities of such entities. the reform act includes a number of measures that will increase capital and liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities which may apply to our business. the frb may impose additional limitations or restrictions on our activities, including if the frb believes that we do not have the appropriate financial and managerial resources to commence or conduct an activity or make an acquisition. further, our subsidiary, fiduciary trust, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the fdic and new york state banking department, while other subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the ots and various state regulators. the laws and regulations imposed by these regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. for example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, both domestically and internationally, and the bank secrecy act has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to, among other things, limit terrorism. at the same time, there has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. as we continue to address these requirements or focus on meeting new or expanded ones, we may expend a substantial amount of time and resources, even though our banking/finance business does not constitute our dominant business sector. any inability to meet these requirements, within the timeframes set by regulators, may subject us to sanctions or other restrictions by the regulators that could impact our broader business. moreover, being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which are not subject to such requirements. regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results. since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly more complex by, among other measures, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001 and the reform act. moreover, the adoption of new laws or regulations and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations have directly affected, and may continue to affect, our business. with new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of our business have increased. in 26 table of contents particular, many provisions of the reform act require the adoption of rules to implement the reform act and mandate multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. we may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the reform act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. in addition, the sec has proposed changes to rule 12b-1 promulgated under the investment company act which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds. outlays associated with meeting regulatory complexities have also increased as we expand our business into new jurisdictions. compliance activities to meet these and other new legal requirements have required us to expend additional time and resources, and, consequently, we are incurring increased costs of doing business, which potentially negatively impacts our profitability and future financial results. moreover, any potential accounting or reporting error, whether financial or otherwise, if material, could damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. finally, any regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry, including compliance initiatives, may negatively impact revenues by increasing our costs of accessing or dealing in the financial markets or by making certain investment offerings less favorable to our customers. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as recent proposals by the obama administration, if enacted, could increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations and profitability. any significant limitation or failure of our software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, we manage and operate our u.s. data centers, and our failure to properly operate them could have an 27 table of contents adverse impact on our business. although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced internet platforms for their products, which could affect our business. potential system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and income. our investment management business operations are complex and a failure to properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income. through our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our sponsored investment products ). our investment management and related services include fund administration, shareholder services, transfer agency, underwriting, distribution, custodial, trustee and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. in addition, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information or other external communications could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects. further, certain of our subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships liabilities. if we fail to properly perform and monitor our investment management operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected. we face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. we sell mutual funds and offer investment management and related services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. as we do so, we will continue to face challenges to the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. in order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to implement necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. as we grow, we face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. similarly, local distributors, and their policies and practices as well as financial viability, may be inconsistent or less developed or mature. notwithstanding potential long-term cost savings by increasing certain operations, such as transfer agent and other back-office operations, in countries or regions of the world with lower operating costs, growth of our international operations may involve near-term increases in expenses as well as additional capital costs, such as information, systems and technology costs and costs related to compliance with particular regulatory or other local requirements or needs. local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local language requirements, while also integrating personnel into an organization with a single operating language. finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment products in their respective markets. any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific 28 table of contents jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. in addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures in which we may not have control. these investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. we depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. the success of our business will continue to depend upon our key personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, investment advisers, sales and management personnel and other professionals as well as our executive officers and business unit heads. competition for qualified, motivated, and highly skilled executives, professionals and other key personnel in the asset management and banking/finance industries remains significant. our success depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified individuals, including through competitive compensation packages, and upon the continued contributions of these people. regulations required to be adopted under the reform act as well as regulations under consideration outside the reform act, could impose restrictions on compensation paid by financial institutions, which could restrict our ability to compete effectively for qualified professionals. as our business grows, we are likely to need to increase correspondingly the overall number of individuals that we employ. moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense without a corresponding increase in potential revenue. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified individuals, and the departure of key investment personnel, in particular, if not replaced, could cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income. we compete with numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage, and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. our investment products also compete with products offered by these competitors as well as real estate investment trusts, hedge funds and others. the periodic establishment of new asset management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. at the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. additionally, competing securities broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. to the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. our ability to attract and retain assets under our management is also dependent on the relative investment performance of our funds and other managed investment portfolios, offering a mix of sponsored investment products that meets investor demand and our ability to maintain our investment management services fees at competitive levels. changes in the third-party distribution and sales channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. increasing competition for these distribution channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could 29 table of contents otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. additionally, consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. there is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or some of our existing products through them. a failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. because we use broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition. our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia, canada, europe, latin america, africa, and australia. as a result, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results from one period to the next. while we have taken steps to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk, for example, by denominating a significant amount of our transactions in u.s. dollars, the situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states. appreciation of the u.s. dollar could moderate revenues from managing investment products internationally or could affect relative investment performance of certain funds invested in non-u.s. securities. in addition, we have risk associated with the foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which the local currency is the functional currency. separately, management fees that we earn tend to be higher in connection with international assets under management than with u.s. assets under management. consequently, a downturn in international markets could have a significant effect on our revenues and income. moreover, as our business grows in non-u.s. markets, any business, economic, social or political unrest affecting these markets, in addition to any direct consequences such unrest may have on our personnel and facilities located in the affected area, may also have a more lasting impact on the long-term investment climate in these and other areas and, as a result, our assets under management and the corresponding revenues and income that we generate from them may be negatively affected. poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. we cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income. we could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. our reputation is important to the success of our business. we believe that our franklin templeton investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. if our reputation is harmed, existing clients may 30 table of contents reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations, or skills. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. the level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability. our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. our continued success in effectively managing and growing our business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. the constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. we have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, and trading systems. further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. these needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. it also may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. while our operational size, the diversity of locations from which we operate, and our redundant back-up systems provide us with a strong advantage should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience near-term operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular segments of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel in our technology group. moreover, as we grow our operations in new geographic regions, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. past disaster recovery efforts have demonstrated that even seemingly localized events may require broader disaster recovery efforts throughout our operations and, consequently, we regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. 31 table of contents certain of the portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to significant market-specific political, economic, or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income. our emerging market portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. our revenues, earnings, and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise. our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services agreements that we have with the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise. these revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. the decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income. regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, civil litigation relating to previously-settled regulatory and governmental investigations, and the legal risks associated with our business, could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. from time to time we may receive requests for documents or other information from governmental authorities or regulatory bodies or we also may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. moreover, governmental or regulatory investigations or examinations that have been inactive could become active. we may be obligated, and under our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our standard form of indemnification agreement with certain directors in some instances, we are obligated, or we may choose, to indemnify directors, officers, or employees against liabilities and expenses they may incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. in addition, we have been named as a defendant in mutual fund shareholder class action and fund derivative lawsuits, as well as in a corporate derivative lawsuit, that relate to previously settled regulatory and governmental investigations. while management believes that the claims made in these lawsuits are without merit, and intends to defend against them vigorously, litigation typically is an expensive process. risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. moreover, settlements or judgments against us have the potential of being substantial if we are unsuccessful in settling or otherwise resolving matters early in the process and/or on favorable terms. eventual exposures from and expenses incurred relating to current and future litigation, investigations, examinations and settlements could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities or in civil litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness. our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders. if we are unable to obtain funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and have an adverse affect on investors willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of 32 table of contents equity markets. if we are unable to obtain funds and financing, or access the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and our business could be adversely impacted. diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer loans. we compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, certain of which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or, in some cases, zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. our inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio. our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to remain well capitalized, and liquidity needs could affect our banking business . our bank and thrift subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation and supervision, which includes minimum regulatory capital standards. franklin is also subject to minimum regulatory capital standards because it is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered with the frb under the bhc act. franklin and its bank and thrift subsidiaries are currently well capitalized under applicable guidelines. however, our business could be negatively affected if franklin or its bank or thrift subsidiaries failed to remain well capitalized. for example, because our bank and thrift subsidiaries are well capitalized and we otherwise qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. loss of financial holding company status would require that we either cease these broader activities or divest our bank subsidiaries if we desire to continue such activities. the banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels. the reform act imposes more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements on bank holding companies. in addition, liquidity needs could affect our banking business, which may be subject to an unanticipated large number of withdrawals as a result of a number of factors, such as changed or unstable economic conditions, adverse trends or events, business closings and lay-offs, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, and returns available to clients on alternative investments. our banking subsidiaries may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity, such as the sale of investment securities, federal home loan bank ( fhlb ) advances and federal funds lines to enable them to meet such withdrawal demands. these secondary sources may not be sufficient to meet liquidity needs. we are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries earnings and business considerations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities, loans, deposits and debt obligations. management is responsible for managing market risk. our enterprise risk management committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily through our loans, investment in debt securities, deposit liabilities and other outstanding debt. we minimize the impact of changes in interest rates related to our investments in debt securities by managing the maturities of these securities, and through diversification. we minimize the impact of changes in interest rates related to our outstanding debt by entering into financing transactions that ensure an appropriate mix of debt at fixed and variable interest rates. in addition, our banking/finance segment monitors the net interest rate margin and the average maturity of interest earning assets, as well as funding sources and, from time to time, we may enter into interest-rate swap agreements to mitigate interest rate exposure arising from the loans receivable portfolio. at september 30, 2010, we have considered the potential impact of a 2% movement in market interest rates on interest earning assets, net of interest-bearing liabilities of our banking/finance segment, total debt outstanding and our portfolio of debt securities. based on our analysis, we do not expect that this change would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results of operations in the next twelve months, for each of these categories or in the aggregate. we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. while we operate primarily in the united states, we also provide services and earn revenues in the bahamas, asia-pacific, canada, europe, latin america and africa. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues are denominated in u.s. dollars. this situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the united states and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in relation to our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in euro, pound sterling, indian rupee, and canadian dollar. these assets accounted for approximately 12% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2010. we also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of u.s. dollar balances held by certain non-u.s. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. these assets accounted for approximately 3% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at september 30, 2010. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. as a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income. we are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value and securities held by sponsored investment products that we consolidate, which are also carried at fair value. 61 table of contents the following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at september 30, 2010. (in thousands) carrying value carrying value assuming a 10% increase carrying value assuming a 10% decrease current investment securities, trading $ 361,396 $ 397,536 $ 325,256 investment securities, available-for-sale 1,114,637 1,226,101 1,003,174 total current $ 1,476,033 $ 1,623,637 $ 1,328,430 banking/finance investment securities, trading $ 23,362 $ 25,698 $ 21,026 investment securities, available-for-sale 408,239 449,063 367,415 total banking/finance $ 431,601 $ 474,761 $ 388,441 non-current investment securities, available-for-sale $ 4,820 $ 5,301 $ 4,338 total $ 1,912,454 $ 2,103,699 $ 1,721,209 to mitigate the market valuation risks, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. our exposure to these risks is also minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which allows us to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market(s) or region(s). our cash, cash equivalents and investments portfolio by investment objective at september 30, 2010 was as follows: (dollar amounts in thousands) total portfolio percent of total portfolio trading securities included in portfolio percent of total trading securities cash and cash equivalents $ 4,123,716 60 % $ % investment securities equity united states 60,798 1 % 26,032 7 % global/international 288,181 4 % 70,854 18 % total equity 348,979 5 % 96,886 25 % hybrid 19,367 0 % 3,912 1 % fixed-income tax-free 65,513 1 % % taxable united states 926,919 14 % 162,724 42 % global/international 551,676 8 % 121,236 32 % total fixed-income 1,544,108 23 % 283,960 74 % total investment securities 1,912,454 28 % 384,758 100 % other investments 789,680 12 % % total cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 6,825,850 100 % $ 384,758 100 % 62 table of contents investments categorized as investment securities, trading in our consolidated balance sheets include securities held by consolidated sponsored investment products. these securities, which amounted to $86.3 million at september 30, 2010, are generally assigned a classification in the table presented above based on the investment objective of the consolidated sponsored investment products holding the trading securities. in october 2010, we invested $100.0 million for 100% ownership of a global fixed-income sponsored investment product. at september 30, 2010, investments categorized as other in the table presented above include $672.9 million of investments in equity method investees that hold securities which primarily have a global/international equity investment objective, are subject to market valuation risks and are readily marketable. 63 table of contents