risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. as one of the largest lenders in the southeast and mid-atlantic u.s. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the u.s., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the u.s., and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and wholesale banking businesses, including our mortgage banking business. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven and the housing market remains weak. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from the sovereign debt crisis in europe and u.s. debt and budget matters, including the raising of the debt limit, deficit reduction, and the downgrade of u.s. debt ratings, as well as other recent events and concerns such as the political unrest in the middle east, the increased volatility of commodity prices and the increase in the price of oil, and the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies such as us, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. the high unemployment rate in the u.s., together with elevated levels of distressed property sales and the significant decline in home prices across the u.s., including in many of our large banking markets such as florida, may be causing consumers to delay home purchases and has resulted in elevated credit costs and nonperforming asset levels which have adversely affected our credit performance and our financial results and condition. if unemployment levels do not improve or if home prices continue to fall we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and cre loans, especially for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. in addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. although we have significant capacity to add loans to our balance sheet, loan demand has been soft resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. if economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, which would likely result in a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may fall, which would adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings. a deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses. 8 legislation and regulation, including the dodd-frank act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position. we are subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the u.s. economic, financial, market, and political conditions during the past few years have led to significant new legislation and regulation in the u.s. and in other jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct business. these laws and regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. for example, in 2009 several legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that will have an impact on our businesses and financial results, including frb amendments to regulation e which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees. in third quarter 2009, we also implemented policy changes to help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. the impact on our revenue of the regulation e amendments, as well as our policy changes, reduced our 2010 and 2011 fee revenue. the continuing impact on our future revenue could vary materially due to a variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, economic conditions and other potential offsetting factors. on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank act became law. the dodd-frank act, among other things, (i) established a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced frb regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies and systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote financial stability; (ii) created a liquidation framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) made significant changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, subject to certain exceptions; (iv) created a new framework for the regulation of otc derivatives and new regulations for the securitization market and strengthens the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets by the sec; (v) established the cfpb within the frb, which will have sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation; (vi) provided for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (vii) revised the fdic's assessment base for deposit insurance by changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on total assets; and (vii) authorized the frb under the durbin amendment to issue regulations establishing, among other things, standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. many provisions of the dodd-frank act became effective in july 2010, and additional provisions became effective upon the first anniversary of its enactment, july 21, 2011. however, a number of these and other provisions of the dodd-frank act still require extensive rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the dodd-frank act and its effects on the u.s. financial system and us will not be known for an extended period of time. nevertheless, the dodd-frank act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. for example, the frb recently issued final rules regarding debit card interchange fees which implement the durbin amendment and became effective on october 1, 2011. as a result of the new rules, we currently expect that our quarterly income will be reduced by approximately $50 million (before tax) before the impact of any offsetting actions. although we expect to recapture a portion of this lost income over time through volume and product changes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to mitigate the negative impact to our financial results from the durbin amendment. the dodd-frank act (through provisions commonly known as the volcker rule ) prohibits banks from engaging in some types of proprietary trading and restricts the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. the relevant regulatory agencies have recently proposed implementing regulations for the volcker rule and issued them for public comment. although we do not have a designated proprietary trading operation, the scope of the proprietary trading prohibition and its impact on us will depend on definitions in the final rule, particularly those definitions related to statutory exemptions for market making, hedging activities and customer trading. until more is known regarding these definitions and the other provisions of the implementing rules, we cannot determine the impact of the proprietary trading prohibition, although we expect that any meaningful limitation on our ability to hedge our risks in the ordinary course or to trade on behalf of customers or conduct related market making activities would adversely affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we held less than $200 million in interests in private equity and hedge funds likely to be affected by the volcker rule. we expect that over time we may need to eliminate these investments and may need to cease sponsoring these funds if an applicable exemption is not available. a forced sale of some of these investments due to the volcker rule could result in us receiving less value than we otherwise would have received. 9 depending on the provisions of the final rule, it is possible that additional structures through which we conduct our business but that are not typically referred to as private equity or hedge funds could be restricted, with an impact that we cannot presently estimate. the dodd-frank act imposes a new regulatory regime on the u.s. otc derivatives markets. while some of the provisions related to otc derivatives came into effect on july 16, 2011, most of the new requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies, principally the cftc and the sec. although the ultimate impact will depend on the final regulations, we expect that our derivatives business will be subject to new substantive requirements, including registration with the cftc and/or the sec, margin requirements in excess of current market practice, capital requirements specific to this business, real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. these requirements collectively will impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on us and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and antimanipulation provisions and private rights of action). in addition, the relevant regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the dodd-frank act provisions requiring retention of risk by certain securitization participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rules are not yet finalized or effective. as a result, the ultimate impact of these dodd-frank act provisions on us remains unpredictable. the impact on us could be direct, by requiring us to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent a portion of the credit risk held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which we participate. since the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government backed) securitization activity than had previously been the case. it is unclear at present whether and to what extent the private securitization markets will rebound. in recent years we have only engaged to a limited extent in securitization transactions under circumstances where we might expect to be required to retain additional risk on our balance sheet as a result of implementation of these dodd-frank act provisions. if the market for private securitizations rebounds and we decide to increase our participation in that market, we would likely be required under the regulations to retain more risk than would otherwise have been the case, with currently uncertain financial impact. in addition, other securitization reforms mandated by the dodd-frank act or implemented or proposed by the sec may have the effect of limiting our ability to execute, or increase the cost of, securitization transactions. the impact of such reforms on our business is uncertain and difficult to quantify. in february 2011, the white house delivered a report to congress regarding proposals to reform the housing finance market in the u.s. the report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the gses and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the gses in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the gses can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. the extent and timing of any regulatory reform regarding the gses and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. for additional information, see the government supervision and regulation section in this form 10-k. we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. the capital framework and basel iii described in item 1 under government supervision and regulation, when implemented by the u.s. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. in particular, the basel iii proposals will require us to maintain a minimum ratio of tier 1 common equity to rwa of at least 7.0% when fully phased-in. further, under the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve, using a phased-in approach between 2013 and 2016, will no longer include trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities in tier 1 capital. presently, we have approximately $1.9 billion principal amount of such securities outstanding which we expect will be affected. such eventual loss of tier 1 capital, and any actions (if necessary) to replace such capital, may adversely affect us. additionally, the basel iii framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests, including a lcr, which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a nsfr, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. if we fail to meet these minimum liquidity capital 10 guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. the lcr and nsfr have proposed adoption dates beginning in 2015 and 2018, respectively. capital requirements may impact a variety of corporate actions, such as increases in dividend payments or repurchases of stock. in 2010, the frb issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies, including us. pursuant to those frb guidelines and the dodd-frank act requirements, we annually submit a capital plan to the frb. consistent with these guidelines and the frb's existing supervisory guidance regarding internal capital assessment, planning and adequacy, the frb recently proposed rules that would require large bank holding companies such as us to submit annual capital plans to the frb and to provide prior notice to the frb before making a capital distribution under certain circumstances, including if the frb objected to a capital plan or if certain minimum capital requirements were not maintained. there can be no assurance that the frb would respond favorably to our pending and future capital plan reviews. further, in december, 2011, the frb proposed rules under the dodd-frank act that will impose enhanced prudential standards on large bank holding companies such as us, including enhanced capital and liquidity requirements, which may be similar to or more restrictive than those proposed by the bcbs. the basel standards and frb regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as tier 1 capital, increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. although not currently anticipated, the proposed basel capital rules and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. the need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than historically has been required could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. it could also result in us taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or being limited in our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, u.s. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and acquisitions. loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gses for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gses to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements - referred to as nonconforming loans. since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those loans. in response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans negatively impacting reserves, or we may produce less negatively impacting revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. continued lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund - and thus originate - new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gses will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). as previously noted, proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gses in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the gses, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. we are subject to credit risk. when we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is 11 critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at december 31, 2011, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. for additional information, see the risk management - credit risk management and critical accounting policies - allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. our alll may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an alll to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. our alll is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. the current stress on the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we do business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our alll may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. if such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of alll associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan loss expense. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. we experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to a housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, particularly several florida msas. as florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, continued deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially higher credit losses. florida and other states in our footprint have suffered significant declines in home values and significant declines in economic activity. a further deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in these states could result in materially higher credit losses, including for our home equity portfolio. for additional information, see the "loans", "allowance for credit losses", risk management - credit risk management and critical accounting policies - allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a and notes 6 and 7, "loans" and "allowance for credit losses", to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. nonperforming assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from ultimately disposing of the assets. we could realize losses in the future as a result of deteriorating market conditions if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. a downgrade in the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. on august 5, 2011, s&amp;p cut the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating of long-term u.s. federal debt to aa+ from aaa while keeping its outlook negative. further, moody's lowered its outlook to "negative" on june 2, 2011 and fitch lowered its outlook to "negative" on november 28, 2011, where they both remain. as a result, there continues to be the perceived risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the u.s. government, including the rating of u.s. treasury securities. it is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly 12 linked to the u.s. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short term debt market. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government and perceived creditworthiness of u.s. government related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. a downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. in addition, we presently deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate into government sponsored institutions, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. such ratings actions, if any, could result in a significant change to our mortgage business. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the failure of the european union to stabilize the fiscal condition and creditworthiness of its weaker member economies, such as greece, portugal, spain, hungary, ireland, and italy, could have international implications potentially impacting global financial institutions, the financial markets, and the economic recovery underway in the u.s. certain european union member countries have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. currently, the european debt crisis has caused credit spreads to widen in the fixed income debt markets, and liquidity to be less abundant. a weaker european economy may transcend europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies, and likewise affect u.s.-based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets and the economic recovery underway in the u.s. should the u.s. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, loan and asset growth at u.s. financial institutions, like us, could be affected. we have taken steps since the 2008-2009 financial crisis to strengthen our liquidity position. nevertheless, a return of the volatile economic conditions experienced in the u.s. during 2008-2009, including the adverse conditions in the fixed income debt markets, for an extended period of time, particularly if left unmitigated by policy measures, may materially and adversely affect us. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. weakness in the non-agency secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, and mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. declining real estate prices have caused cyclically higher delinquencies and losses on mortgage loans, particularly alt-a mortgages, home equity lines of credit, and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch banking network. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. continued declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of unemployment, interest rate resets on arms or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased defaults in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. further, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own as a result of foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event that we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result 13 of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations, whether or not we were the originator of the loan. while in many cases we may have a remedy available against the originating broker or correspondent, often these may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to satisfy remedies that may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. we have received a number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these have resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps will not reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected. during the third and fourth quarters of 2011, repurchase requests increased substantially. however, repurchase requests historically have been highly volatile, and it is too early to tell if this is the beginning of a trend. in the fourth quarter of 2011, we increased this reserve and, if repurchase requests increase, we may need to increase it further and this would adversely affect net income available to common shareholders. during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 we received $1.7 billion , $1.1 billion , and $1.1 billion of repurchase requests, respectively. further, during the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, we repurchased or otherwise settled mortgages with unpaid principal balances of $789 million and $677 million , respectively, related to investor demands, which included an insignificant amount of indemnifications in both years. for additional information, see note 18 , reinsurance arrangements and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and the following sections of md&amp;a in this form 10-k - "noninterest income , "other nonperforming assets , and "critical accounting policies". in addition, investors have begun to demonstrate reduced flexibility and reduced willingness to resolve pending repurchase requests and, if this continues, our repurchase rates may increase and this would cause us to increase our repurchase reserve. finally, we have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gses. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 18 , reinsurance arrangements and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may adversely affect our servicing and investment portfolios. our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. to the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. we may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances. similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. if a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replacement coverage is not obtained. we also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. the value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be adversely affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers. we may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we have increased repurchase obligations because 14 of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. we may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. if a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. these costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. in addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. we may incur a liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. the fair value of our msrs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. we may be subject to fines and other sanctions, including a foreclosure moratorium or suspension or a requirement to forgive or modify the loan obligations of certain of our borrowers, imposed by federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. in april of 2011, we entered into a consent order with the frb following a joint interagency horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at large mortgage servicers, including us. the order incorporates remedial requirements for identified deficiencies and require us, among other things, to take certain actions with respect to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations, including submitting various action plans to ensure that our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations comply with legal requirements, regulatory guidance and the consent order. as noted above, any increase in our servicing costs from changes in our foreclosure and other servicing practices, including resulting from the consent order, adversely affects the fair value of our msrs. the consent order did not provide for a civil money penalty but the frb reserved the ability to seek such penalty. other government agencies, including state attorneys general and the u.s. department of justice, continue to investigate various mortgage related practices of ours, and these investigations could result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies (including requiring default servicing or other process changes), or other enforcement actions and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations and additional litigation. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. in some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. in some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies has contributed to these delays (see management's discussion and analysis-nonperforming assets in this form 10-k). any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. we may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies and practices. we seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting policies and practices, which often include analysis of a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. our underwriting policies, practices and standards are periodically reviewed and, if appropriate, enhanced in response to changing market conditions and/or corporate strategies. examples include: client eligibility requirements, documentation requirements, loan types, collateral types, ltv ratios, and minimum credit scores. prior reviews have resulted in more stringent documentation standards, lower maximum ltv ratios, and channel and client type restrictions. these actions have contributed to a reduction in exposure since the fourth quarter of 2008 in certain higher risk portfolio segments, such as higher risk mortgage, home equity, and commercial construction. these actions have also contributed to declines in early stage delinquencies and non-performing loans. while these changes have resulted in improving asset quality metrics, elevated losses may continue to occur due to economic factors, changes in borrower behavior, or other factors. our mortgage production and servicing revenue can be volatile. we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. under the same conditions, revenue from our msrs can increase through increases in fair value, although we may not realize some or all of this benefit due to derivative hedges on our msrs. when rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our msrs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. even though they can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. for example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential 15 msrs is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the msrs relating to the new loans would generally be recognized over time. it is also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a deteriorating housing market similar to current market conditions, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the msrs value caused by the lower rates. we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see the noninterest income section in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the continuing weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our lhfs or other assets; a loss of clients, reduced earnings, and/or a suppressed stock price could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us; or an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on lhfs. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the structure of the balance sheet, which includes all loans. variable rate loans, prior to any hedging related actions, are approximately 55% of total loans and approximately 43% of total loans after giving consideration to hedging related actions. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, investment portfolio, coke common stock, msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried at fair value. alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; the value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin - the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding - and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield catches up. 16 the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if current economic conditions persist, we may continue to see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve - or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates - could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. the interest we earn on our assets may be tied to u.s.-denominated interest rates such as the fed funds rate, while the interest we pay on our liabilities may be based on international rates such as libor. if the fed funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in libor, we might earn less on our assets without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we also rely on the natural hedge from our mortgage loan originations. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management section in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our msrs and mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings. we have a sizable portfolio of msrs. an msr is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. we acquire msrs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. we initially measure all and carry substantially all our residential msrs using the fair value measurement method. fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our msrs and any related hedges, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. we measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. we also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. we may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. for additional information, see enterprise risk management - other market risk and critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a, and note 9 , "goodwill and other intangible assets," to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. in particular, programs to facilitate loan refinancing, such as the recently expanded harp, may cause us to reevaluate repayment assumptions related to the prepayment speed assumptions related to loans that we service, and this may adversely affect the fair value of our msr asset. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in 17 federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. depressed market values for our stock may require us to write down goodwill. numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. one of those considerations is the estimated fair value of each reporting unit. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including our market capitalization evaluated over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. however, significant and/or sustained declines in our market capitalization, especially in relation to our book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural or man-made disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. 18 information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pc's, personal computers, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of suntrust and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 19 we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal dif and the banking system as a whole. the u.s. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or margin declines. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies, can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we might not pay dividends on your common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. further, in february 2009, the federal reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. since that time, the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, we expect that any substantial increase in our dividend will require the approval of the federal reserve. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements (that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp) will increase to the extent that we pay dividends prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp. specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends 20 from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us includes inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our issuer ratings are rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. while those ratings were downgraded during 2009 and 2010, there were no changes to our primary credit ratings during 2011. on march 3, 2011, fitch affirmed our senior long- and short-term credit ratings at bbb+ and f2, respectively, and upgraded its outlook on our ratings from stable to positive . on december 6, 2011, s&amp;p affirmed our credit ratings and maintained its outlook on those ratings at stable . our credit ratings also remain on stable outlook with moody's and dbrs. additional downgrades are possible although not anticipated given the stable or "positive" outlook from all four major rating agencies. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact only on the cost of wholesale funding as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the fdic. during the most recent financial market crisis and economic recession, our senior debt credit spread to the matched maturity 5-year swap rate widened before we received any credit ratings downgrades in 2009 and began to tighten before we received our most recent credit rating downgrade in november 2010. after the loss of our a-1 short-term credit rating in april 2009 and capital raise in may and june 2009, more recent credit rating downgrades had little or no detrimental impact to our debt credit spreads. we expect that a one notch downgrade would have a relatively small impact on our debt credit spreads. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and may continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. 21 we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. we are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. however, during the current credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. while we do not believe that any single case will have a material adverse effect on us, the cumulative burden of these cases may adversely affect our results. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 20 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. however, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by the ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. there may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. such a finding may also damage our reputation. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, william h. rogers, jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june, 2010, the federal reserve, the occ, the office of thrift supervision, and the fdic jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 22 certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, securities afs, certain loans, msrs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1, significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb, sec, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. for example, the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls 23 and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities which include various types of instruments and maturities. in addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a, which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. for example, the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. as one of the largest lenders in the southeast and mid-atlantic u.s. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the u.s., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the u.s., and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and wholesale banking businesses, including our mortgage banking business. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth has been slow and improvement in the housing market has been modest. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from the sovereign debt crisis in europe and u.s. debt and budget matters, including the "fiscal cliff," raising of the debt limit, deficit reduction, and the downgrade of u.s. debt ratings, as well as other recent events and concerns such as the political unrest in the middle east, the increased volatility of commodity prices, and the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies such as us, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. the high unemployment rate in the u.s., together with elevated levels of distressed property sales and the persistent weak home prices across the u.s., including in many of our large banking markets such as florida, may be causing consumers to delay home purchases and has resulted in elevated credit costs and nonperforming asset levels which have adversely affected our credit performance and our financial results and condition. if unemployment levels do not improve or if home prices decrease further we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and cre loans, especially for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. in addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. although we have significant capacity to add loans to our balance sheet, loan demand has been soft resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. if economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, which would likely result in a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may fall, which would adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings. a deterioration in business and economic conditions that erodes consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other 8 fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses. legislation and regulation, including the dodd-frank act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position. we are subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the u.s. economic, financial, market, and political conditions during the past few years have led to significant new legislation and regulation in the u.s. and in other jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct business. these laws and regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. for example, in 2009 several legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that will have an impact on our businesses and financial results, including frb amendments to regulation e which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees. in third quarter 2009, we also implemented policy changes to help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. the impact on our revenue of the regulation e amendments, as well as our policy changes, reduced our fee revenue. the continuing impact on our future revenue could vary materially due to a variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, economic conditions and other potential offsetting factors. on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank act became law. the dodd-frank act, among other things, (i) established a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced frb regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies and systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote financial stability which has substantial resolution authority that may affect or alter the rights of creditors and investors in a resolution scenario; (ii) created a liquidation framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) made significant changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and private fund activities, subject to certain exceptions; (iv) created a new framework for the regulation of otc derivatives and new regulations for the securitization market and strengthens the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets by the sec; (v) established the cfpb, which will have sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation; (vi) provided for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (vii) revised the fdic's assessment base for deposit insurance by changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity; and (vii) authorized the frb under the durbin amendment to issue regulations establishing, among other things, standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. many provisions of the dodd-frank act became effective in july 2010, and additional provisions became effective upon the first anniversary of its enactment, july 21, 2011. however, a number of these and other provisions of the dodd-frank act still require extensive rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the dodd-frank act and its effects on the u.s. financial system and us will not be known for an extended period of time. nevertheless, the dodd-frank act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. for example, on october 1, 2011, final rules became effective which limit the fees we can charge for debit card interchange, and this has reduced our noninterest income. additionally, the dodd-frank act established the cfpb with jurisdiction to regulate, among other things, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. the cfpb has already imposed substantial fines on other financial institutions. further, the cfpb is expected to release seven new final regulations under title xiv of the dodd-frank act in 2013 further regulating the origination of mortgages and addressing "ability to repay" standards, loan officer compensation, appraisal disclosures, hoepa triggers and other matters. the "ability to repay" rule, in particular has the potential to significantly affect our business since it provides a borrower with a defense to foreclosure unless the lender established the borrower's ability to repay, or that the loan was a "qualified mortgage" or met other exceptions to the rule. our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may change as these rules are developed, become effective, and are interpreted by the regulators and courts. the dodd-frank act (through provisions commonly known as the volcker rule ) prohibits banks from engaging in some types of proprietary trading and restricts the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. the volcker rule became effective on july 21, 2012 in advance of the finalization of the implementing regulations by the relevant regulatory 9 agencies. these regulatory agencies issued guidance that during the automatic two year conformance period commencing on july 21, 2012, banking entities should engage in good-faith planning efforts to enable them to comply with the volcker rule and any final implementing regulations by no later than the end of this two year period, which may include complying with any reporting and recordkeeping requirements before the end of this two year period if they are included in and required by the final regulations. they also clarified that these good-faith efforts should include an assessment of which banking entity activities are covered by the volcker rule and any final implementing regulations and development of a plan to conform these activities to the volcker rule/final implementing regulations by july 21, 2014 unless an extension is provided. we have undertaken such good faith planning efforts. although we do not have a designated proprietary trading operation, the scope of the proprietary trading prohibition and its impact on us will depend on definitions in the final rule, particularly those definitions related to statutory exemptions for market making, hedging activities and customer trading. until more is known regarding these definitions and the other provisions of the implementing rules, we cannot determine the impact of the proprietary trading prohibition, although we expect that any meaningful limitation on our ability to hedge our risks in the ordinary course or to trade on behalf of customers or conduct related market making activities would adversely affect our business and results of operations. during the course of 2012, we disposed of substantially all of our holdings of our interests in private equity and hedge funds which we expect to be affected by the volcker rule. the dodd-frank act created a new regulatory framework for the u.s. otc derivatives markets with jurisdiction being broadly shared by the cftc for swaps and the sec for security-based swaps. in 2012, the cftc finalized many of its core regulations triggering a phased-in compliance period commencing in late 2012 and most of 2013. while the sec has proposed most of its core regulations, most of its new requirements await final regulations. although the ultimate impact will depend on the final regulations, we expect that our derivatives business will be subject to new substantive requirements, including registration with the cftc and/or the sec, margin requirements in excess of current market practice, capital requirements specific to this business, trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. these requirements collectively will impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on us and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and antimanipulation provisions and private rights of action). in addition, the relevant regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the dodd-frank act provisions requiring retention of risk by certain securitization participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rules are not yet finalized or effective. as a result, the ultimate impact of these dodd-frank act provisions on us remains unpredictable. the impact on us could be direct, by requiring us to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent a portion of the credit risk held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which we participate. since the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government backed) securitization activity than had previously been the case. it is unclear at present whether and to what extent the private securitization markets will rebound. in recent years we have only engaged to a limited extent in securitization transactions under circumstances where we might expect to be required to retain additional risk on our balance sheet as a result of implementation of these dodd-frank act provisions. if the market for private securitizations rebounds and we decide to increase our participation in that market, we would likely be required under the regulations to retain more risk than would otherwise have been the case, with currently uncertain financial impact. in addition, other securitization reforms mandated by the dodd-frank act or implemented or proposed by the sec may have the effect of limiting our ability to execute, or increase the cost of, securitization transactions. the impact of such reforms on our business is uncertain and difficult to quantify. in february 2011, the white house delivered a report to congress regarding proposals to reform the housing finance market in the u.s. the report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the gses and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the gses in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the gses can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. the extent and timing of any regulatory reform regarding the gses and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. for additional information, see the government supervision and regulation section in this form 10-k. 10 we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. the proposed rulemakings conforming u.s. regulatory capital to basel iii described in item 1 under government supervision and regulation, when implemented by the u.s. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. in particular, the proposed rulemakings will require us to maintain a minimum ratio of tier 1 common equity to rwa of at least 7.0% when fully phased-in. under the npr published by the federal reserve and other regulators in june, 2012, the risk weighting of many of our assets will change. we have estimated our regulatory capital under basel iii under the npr, and we provide that estimate and a reconcilement to u.s. gaap in table 39 , "reconcilement of non-u.s. gaap measures" in item 7, "md&amp;a", in this form 10-k. note that this estimate is consistent with our interpretation of the npr, and ambiguities in the npr or other interpretations of the npr could result in a larger measure of risk-weighted assets and consequently a lower tier 1 common equity ratio. if risk weightings of certain assets change, and we are required to hold increased amounts of capital as a result of holding those assets, the profitability of those assets and businesses may change, and longer-term this may result in changes in our business mix. the npr will also eventually eliminate the contribution to tier 1 capital of certain trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities currently included in tier 1 capital. these securities will lose tier 1 capital status under phased-in approach between 2013 and 2016. at december 31, 2012 , we had $627 million principal amount of such securities outstanding. additionally, the basel iii framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests, including a lcr, which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a nsfr, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. if we are not able to meet these minimum liquidity capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we may need to alter our investment portfolio or business mix, and this may adversely affect our earnings. banks will be required to become compliant with the lcr during a phase-in period beginning january 1, 2015. at this time, international regulatory authorities are still assessing the nsfr and it is unclear when the nsfr will be introduced as a requirement. in 2010, the frb issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies, including us. pursuant to those frb guidelines and the dodd-frank act requirements, we annually submit a capital plan to the frb under the frb's comprehensive capital analysis and review program (ccar), which incorporates requirements from sections 165(i)(1) and (2) of the dodd frank act. consistent with these guidelines and the frb's existing supervisory guidance regarding internal capital assessment, planning and adequacy, the frb has adopted rules that require large bank holding companies, such as us, to submit annual capital plans to the frb and to provide prior notice to the frb before making a capital distribution under certain circumstances, including if the frb objected to a capital plan or if certain minimum capital requirements were not maintained. further, our capital planning under ccar requires an analysis of capital management and capital adequacy under a variety of hypothetical stressed economic scenarios. there can be no assurance that the frb will respond favorably to our pending and future capital plan reviews. further, in december, 2011, the frb proposed rules under the dodd-frank act that will impose enhanced prudential standards on large bank holding companies such as us, including enhanced capital and liquidity requirements, which may be similar to or more restrictive than those proposed by the bcbs. the performance of the company under ccar's hypothetical scenarios dictates the capital actions the frb will allow us to take, such as dividends and share repurchases. in addition to the quantitative requirements of ccar, the frb also evaluates the qualitative aspects of our capital management program, which can also impact our capital actions. due to the importance and intensity of the ccar process, we have dedicated additional resources to comply with ccar, although no assurance can be provided that these resources will be deemed sufficient or that we will be deemed to have adequate capital under ccar's hypothetical scenarios. if we are deemed to have inadequate capital under ccar's hypothetical scenarios, then the frb may prohibit us from taking certain capital actions, such as paying or increasing dividends or repurchasing capital stock. the basel standards and frb regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as tier 1 capital, increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. although not currently anticipated, the proposed basel capital rules and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. further, even if the frb approves a capital plan which we submit 11 under ccar, such approval would not mean that other limitations do not exist on our ability to pay or increase dividends or repurchase stock. the need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than historically has been required could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. it could also result in us taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, u.s. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and acquisitions. loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gses for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gses to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements referred to as nonconforming loans. since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those loans. in response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans negatively impacting reserves, or we may originate less negatively impacting revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. continued lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gses will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). as previously noted, proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gses in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the gses, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. we are subject to credit risk. when we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at december 31, 2012, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. for additional information, see the risk management credit risk management and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. 12 our alll may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an alll to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. our alll is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. the current stress on the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we do business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our alll may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. if such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of alll associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan losses. on december 20, 2012, the fasb issued for public comment a proposed accounting standards update, financial instruments credit losses (subtopic 825-15) (the credit loss proposal), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses under u.s. gaap. under u.s. gaap's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in financial statements until it is probable that the credit loss has been incurred. under the credit loss proposal, an entity would reflect in its financial statements its current estimate of credit losses on financial assets over the expected life of each financial asset. comments on the credit loss proposal are due by april 30, 2013. the credit loss proposal, if adopted as proposed, may have a negative impact on our reported earnings, capital, regulatory capital ratios, as well as on regulatory limits which are based on capital (e.g., loans to affiliates) since it would accelerate the the recognition of estimated credit losses. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. we experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to a housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, particularly several florida msas. as florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, further deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially higher credit losses. florida and other states in our footprint have suffered significant declines in home values and significant declines in economic activity. a further deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in these states could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the "loans", "allowance for credit losses", risk management credit risk management and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a and notes 6 and 7 , "loans" and "allowance for credit losses", to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. nonperforming assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from ultimately disposing of the assets. we could realize losses in the future as a result of deteriorating market conditions if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. a downgrade in the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. on august 5, 2011, s&amp;p cut the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating of long-term u.s. federal debt to aa+ from aaa while keeping its outlook negative. further, moody's lowered its outlook to "negative" on june 2, 2011 and fitch lowered its outlook to "negative" on november 28, 2011, where they both remain. as a result, there continues to be the perceived risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the u.s. government, including the rating of u.s. treasury securities. it is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the u.s. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short term debt market. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government and perceived creditworthiness of u.s. government related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. a downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. in addition, we presently 13 deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate into government sponsored institutions, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. such ratings actions, if any, could result in a significant change to our mortgage business. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the failure of the european union to stabilize the fiscal condition and creditworthiness of its weaker member economies could have international implications potentially impacting global financial institutions, the financial markets, and the economic recovery underway in the u.s. certain european union member countries have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. currently, the european debt crisis has caused credit spreads to widen in the fixed income debt markets, and liquidity to be less abundant. a weaker european economy may transcend europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies, and likewise affect u.s.-based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets and the economic recovery underway in the u.s. should the u.s. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, loan and asset growth at u.s. financial institutions, like us, could be affected. we have taken steps since the 2008-2009 financial crisis to strengthen our liquidity position. nevertheless, a return of the volatile economic conditions experienced in the u.s. during 2008-2009, including the adverse conditions in the fixed income debt markets, for an extended period of time, particularly if left unmitigated by policy measures, may materially and adversely affect us. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. weakness in the non-agency secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, and mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. lower real estate prices have caused cyclically higher delinquencies and losses on mortgage-related loans. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. continuing declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of unemployment, interest rate resets on arms or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased defaults in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. further, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own as a result of foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event that we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations, whether or not we were the originator of the loan. while in many cases we may have a remedy available against the originating broker or correspondent, often these may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to satisfy remedies that may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. we have received a number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these have resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps will not reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 14 during the third quarter of 2012, we recorded a $371 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, primarily related to loans sold to the gses prior to 2009, and the resulting mortgage repurchase reserve reflects the estimated incurred losses on repurchase demands for this population of loans. accordingly, we expect that future mortgage repurchase provisions will decrease substantially from levels experienced in recent quarters. however, our estimate of losses is highly dependent on gse repurchase requests and related behavior, and other factors. for additional information, see note 17 , reinsurance arrangements and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and the following sections of md&amp;a in this form 10-k "noninterest income , "other nonperforming assets , and "critical accounting policies." finally, we have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gses. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 17 , reinsurance arrangements and guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may adversely affect our servicing and investment portfolios. our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. to the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. we may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances. similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. if a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replacement coverage is not obtained. we also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. the value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be adversely affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers. we face certain risks as a servicer of loans. also, we may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, the costs to perform contracted-for services has been increasing, which reduces our profitability. further, gses can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which become effective on january 10, 2014 and which may further increase the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition there has been a significant increase in state laws that implement additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. further, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. we may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. if a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. these costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the 15 extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. in addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. we may incur a liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. the fair value of our msrs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. further, we may be subject to fines and other sanctions, including a foreclosure moratorium or suspension or a requirement to forgive or modify the loan obligations of certain of our borrowers, imposed by federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. in 2011, the federal reserve conducted a horizontal review of the nation's largest mortgage loan servicers, including us. following this review, we and other servicers entered into a consent order with the federal reserve. we describe the consent order in note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k and "nonperforming assets" in this md&amp;a. the consent order required us to improve certain mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes and to retain an independent foreclosure consultant to conduct a review of residential foreclosure actions pending during 2009 and 2010 to identify any errors, misrepresentations or deficiencies, determine whether any instances so identified resulted in financial injury, and prepare a written report detailing the findings. on january 7, 2013, we, along with nine other mortgage servicers, entered into an acceleration and remediation agreement with the occ and the federal reserve to amend the 2011 consent order. this agreement ends the independent foreclosure review process created by the consent order, replacing it with an accelerated remediation program. pursuant to the agreement, we will make a cash payment of $63 million to fund lump-sum payments to borrowers who faced a foreclosure action on their primary residence between january 1, 2009 and december 31, 2010, and will commit $100 million to affect loss mitigation or other foreclosure prevention actions. the impact of the cash payment is included in our consolidated financial results at december 31, 2012, and we expect that our existing alll or other activities will be sufficient to provide for the loss mitigation or other foreclosure prevention actions. we filed the consent order as exhibit 10.25 to our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011 . as a result of the federal reserve's review of the company's residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices that preceded the consent order, the federal reserve announced that it would impose a civil money penalty. at this time, no such penalty has been imposed, and the amount and terms of such a potential penalty have not been finally determined. we also continue with settlement discussions with the u.s. and states attorneys general related to mortgage servicing claims as discussed in note 19 , "contingencies" to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we have accrued for the anticipated cost of resolving these and other potential claims in our financial results. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. in some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. in some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies has contributed to these delays (see management's discussion and analysis-nonperforming assets in this form 10-k). any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. we may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies and practices. we seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting policies and practices, which often include analysis of a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. our underwriting policies, practices and standards are periodically reviewed and, if appropriate, enhanced in response to changing market conditions and/or corporate strategies. examples include: client eligibility requirements, documentation requirements, loan types, collateral types, ltv ratios, and minimum credit scores. prior reviews have resulted in more stringent documentation standards, lower maximum ltv ratios, and channel and client type restrictions. these actions have contributed to a reduction in exposure to certain higher risk portfolio segments, such as higher risk mortgage, home equity, and commercial construction. these actions have also contributed to declines in early stage delinquencies and nonperforming loans. while these changes have resulted in improving asset quality metrics, elevated losses may continue to occur due to economic factors, changes in borrower behavior, or other factors. our mortgage production and servicing revenue can be volatile. we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. under the same 16 conditions, revenue from our msrs can increase through increases in fair value, although we may not realize some or all of this benefit due to derivative hedges on the fair value of our msrs. when rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our msrs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. even though they can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. for example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of our msrs is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the msrs relating to the new loans would generally be recognized over time. it is also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the msrs value caused by the lower rates. during 2012, our mortgage production income benefited from high levels of refinancing activity and historically high gain on sale margins for our mortgage loans. while we continue to believe that there remains a substantial number of mortgages eligible to be refinanced, our mortgage production income likely will be adversely affected if refinance activity declines or if gain on sale margins narrow. we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 16 , derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as a financial services company, changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the continuing weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our lhfs or other assets; a loss of clients, reduced earnings, and/or a suppressed stock price could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us; or an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on lhfs. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the structure of the balance sheet, which includes all loans. variable rate loans, prior to any hedging related actions, are approximately 57% of total loans and approximately 43% of total loans after giving consideration to hedging related actions. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried at fair value. alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; the value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. 17 our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield catches up. the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if current economic conditions persist, we may continue to see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail under the caption market risk management in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. amidst the continued stagnant economic conditions seen during 2012, the federal reserve indicated in january 2013 that highly accommodative monetary policy will remain for a considerable time after the economic recovery strengthens and as such, it anticipates maintaining key interest rates at exceptionally low levels as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5% and its long-term inflation goals are not met. a persistent low interest rate environment likely will adversely affect the interest income we earn on loans and investments. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management section in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our msrs and mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings. we have a sizable portfolio of msrs. an msr is the right to service a mortgage loan collect principal, interest and escrow amounts for a fee. we acquire msrs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. we initially measure all and carry substantially all our residential msrs using the fair value measurement method. fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our msrs and any related hedges, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. we measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. we also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. we may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with 18 derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. for additional information, see enterprise risk management other market risk and critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a, and note 9 , "goodwill and other intangible assets," to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. changes are being considered in the method for determining libor and it is not apparent how any such changes could affect the value of debt securities and other financial obligations held or issued by suntrust that are linked to libor, or how such changes could affect the company's financial condition or results of operations. beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily libor, which is currently overseen by the bba. the bba has taken steps to change the process for determining libor by increasing the number of banks surveyed to set libor and to strengthen the oversight of the process. in addition, the final report of the wheatley review of libor, published in september 2012, set forth recommendations relating to the setting and administration of libor, and the uk government has announced that it intends to incorporate these recommendations in new legislation. at the present time it is uncertain what changes, if any, may be required or made by the uk government or other governmental or regulatory authorities in the method for determining libor. accordingly, at the present time it is not apparent whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the value of any libor-linked securities issued by us or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which we are an obligor, or whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse effect on the value of any libor-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our financial condition or results of operations. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. in particular, programs to facilitate loan refinancing, such as the recently expanded harp, may cause us to reevaluate repayment assumptions related to the prepayment speed assumptions related to loans that we service, and this may adversely affect the fair value of our msr asset. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. depressed market values for our stock may require us to write down goodwill. numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. one of those considerations is the estimated fair value of each reporting unit. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including our market capitalization evaluated over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. however, significant and/or sustained declines in our market capitalization, especially in relation to our book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. 19 hurricanes and other disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural or man-made disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pcs, personal computers, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. 20 for example, in october of 2012, our main online banking website, as well as those of several other prominent financial institutions, was subject to a series of distributed denial of service attacks. these attacks, which were also generally publicized in the media, did not result in any financial loss, fraud or breach of client data or service disruptions of any materiality. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale, and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal dif and the banking system as a whole. the u.s. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or margin declines. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies, can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, 21 and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we might not pay dividends on your common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. further, in february 2009, the federal reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. since that time, the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, we expect that any substantial increase in our dividend will require the approval of the federal reserve. refer to the discussion under the caption "we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected," above. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements (that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp) will increase to the extent that we pay dividends prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp. specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us includes inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our issuer ratings are rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. there were no changes to our primary credit ratings during 2012. on february 27, 2012, fitch affirmed our senior long- and short-term credit ratings and revised its outlook on our ratings from positive to stable . on december 10, 2012, s&amp;p also affirmed our senior long- and short-term credit ratings; however, its outlook on our ratings was upgraded from stable to positive . our credit ratings also remain on stable outlook with moody's and dbrs. additional downgrades are possible, although not anticipated, given the stable or "positive" outlook from all four major rating agencies. 22 the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact only on the cost of wholesale funding as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the fdic. during the most recent financial market crisis and economic recession, our senior debt credit spread to the matched maturity 5-year swap rate widened before we received any credit ratings downgrades in 2009 and began to tighten before we received our most recent credit rating downgrade in november 2010. after the loss of our a-1 short-term credit rating in april 2009 and capital raises in may and june 2009, more recent credit rating downgrades had little or no detrimental impact to our debt credit spreads. we expect that a one notch downgrade would have a relatively small impact on our debt credit spreads. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and may continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. during the current credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. while we do not believe that any single case will have a material adverse effect on us, the cumulative burden of these cases may adversely affect our results. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. 23 we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. for example, in 2011, the federal reserve conducted a horizontal review of the nation's largest mortgage loan servicers, which resulted in our entering into a consent order with the federal reserve. we describe the consent order in note 19 , contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k and in the "nonperforming assets" section of the md&amp;a. further, we recently entered into a settlement agreement as part of the independent foreclosure review established as a result of this consent order and pursuant to that settlement agreement we will make a $63 million cash payment (which was accrued in 2012) and provide $100 million in other mortgage assistance to borrowers through existing programs such as loan modifications. there may be other negative consequences resulting from other findings of noncompliance with regulations, including restrictions on certain activities. such a finding may also damage our reputation. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by the ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, william h. rogers, jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june, 2010, the federal reserve, the occ, the office of thrift supervision, and the fdic jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, afs securities, certain loans, msrs, private investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings. 24 management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb, sec, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities which include various types of instruments and maturities. in addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated 25 with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a, which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. as one of the largest lenders in the southeast and mid-atlantic u.s. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the u.s., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the u.s., and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth and improvement in the housing market have been modest. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from u.s. debt and budget matters, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies such as us, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. in addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. if economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, then a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending are likely, which may reduce demand for our credit products, which would adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings. a deterioration in business and economic conditions that erodes consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses. legislation and regulation, including the dodd-frank act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal dif and the banking system as a whole. the u.s. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. regulation of the financial services industry has increased significantly since the global financial crisis. the regulation is focused on the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, rather than our shareholders, and may be adverse to the interests of our shareholders. we are subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the u.s., including new legislation and rule-making promulgated under the dodd-frank act. increased supervision, reporting, and significant new and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and in other jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct business may affect the manner in which we do business and the products 8 and services that we provide, and may affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. the dodd-frank act, among other things, (i) established a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced frb regulations, including significant changes to capital and liquidity requirements, on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies and systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote financial stability, and gives the financial stability oversight council substantial resolution authority that may affect or alter the rights of creditors and investors in a resolution scenario; (ii) created a liquidation framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) made significant changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and private fund activities, subject to certain exceptions; (iv) created a new framework for the regulation of otc derivatives and new regulations for the securitization market and strengthened the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets by the sec; (v) established the cfpb, which has broad powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of comprehensive consumer financial regulation; (vi) provided for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (vii) revised the fdic's assessment base for deposit insurance by changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, and also allows the federal reserve to assess additional fees for systemic risk oversight, and (vii) authorized the frb under the durbin amendment to issue regulations establishing, among other things, standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. a significant number of the provisions of the dodd-frank act still require extensive rulemaking and interpretation by regulatory authorities. in several cases, authorities have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the dodd-frank act and its effects on the u.s. financial system and suntrust will not be known for an extended period of time. nevertheless, the dodd-frank act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital and liquidity requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. for example, on october 1, 2011, final rules issued by the federal reserve became effective which limit the fees we can charge for debit card interchange, and this has reduced our noninterest income. the ultimate status of these rules is uncertain as merchants brought suit against the federal reserve in 2012 challenging the rules. the federal reserve has appealed a lower court finding that set aside the rules. in addition, several recent legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that have had an impact on our businesses and financial results, including frb and cfpb amendments to regulation e which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees and our provision of electronic funds transfer services for u.s. consumers to recipients in other countries. we also implemented policy changes to help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. these reduced our fee revenue. the dodd-frank act also established the cfpb, which has authority to regulate, among other things, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. the cfpb has been active in rule-making and enforcement activity, and already has imposed substantial fines on other financial institutions. among its other consumer-protective initiatives, the cfpb has placed significant emphasis on consumer complaint management. the cfpb has established a public consumer complaint database to encourage consumers to file complaints they may have against financial institutions, which the cfpb may use to focus enforcement actions and for rule-making. in addition, each financial institution is expected to maintain an effective consumer complaint management program. further, in 2013 the cfpb released final regulations under title xiv of the dodd-frank act in 2013 further regulating the origination of mortgages and addressing "ability to repay" standards, loan officer compensation, appraisal disclosures, hoepa triggers and other matters. the "ability to repay" rule, in particular, has the potential to significantly affect our business since it provides a borrower with a defense to foreclosure unless the lender established the borrower's ability to repay, or that the loan was a "qualified mortgage" or met other exceptions to the rule. while qualified mortgages may provide certain safe harbors, the extent of these safe harbors remains unclear. our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may be affected by cfpb rules and may change as these and other rules are developed, become effective, and are interpreted by the regulators and courts. the dodd-frank act (through provisions commonly known as the volcker rule ) prohibits banking entities from engaging in certain types of proprietary trading and restricts their ability to sponsor, invest in, or have certain relationships with covered funds such as private equity funds, hedge funds or other similar private investment vehicles. the volcker rule became effective on july 21, 2012 in advance of the finalization of the implementing regulations by the relevant regulatory agencies. these regulatory agencies issued guidance during the automatic two year conformance period which commenced on july 21, 2012, providing that banking entities should engage in good-faith planning efforts to enable them to comply with the volcker rule and any final implementing regulations by no later than the end of that two year period. they also clarified that these 9 good-faith efforts should include an assessment of which banking entity activities are covered by the volcker rule and any final implementing regulations and development of a plan to conform these activities to the volcker rule/final implementing regulations by july 21, 2014, which was the original conformance date. we have undertaken such good faith planning efforts. the regulatory agencies released final implementing regulations on december 10, 2013, which extended the conformance date and good faith planning requirements to july 21, 2015. although we do not have a designated proprietary trading operation, the scope of the proprietary trading prohibition and its impact on us depends on certain definitions in the final implementing regulations, particularly those definitions related to exemptions for market making, hedging activities and customer trading. while we are assessing the impact of the final regulations, we believe that the impact to revenues associated with the volcker rule will be immaterial. the final regulations will also require us to establish and maintain an internal compliance program to monitor and assure compliance with the volcker rule, which will impose ongoing compliance costs on us. the dodd-frank act created a new regulatory framework for the u.s. otc derivatives markets with jurisdiction being broadly shared by the cftc for swaps and the sec for security-based swaps. in 2012 and 2013, the cftc finalized most of its core regulations triggering a phased-in compliance period commencing in late 2012 and continuing throughout 2013. in 2013, suntrust bank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the cftc and became subject to new substantive requirements, including trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing of certain standardized swaps designated by the cftc, such as most interest rate swaps. while the sec has proposed most of its core regulations for security-based swaps, most of its new requirements await final regulations and are expected to be similar to the cftc rules for swaps. moreover, we expect our derivatives business will become subject to additional substantive requirements, including margin requirements in excess of current market practice, increased capital requirements and exchange trading requirements. these new rules collectively will impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on us and will introduce additional legal risk, including as a result of newly applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action. additionally, the relevant regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the dodd-frank act provisions requiring retention of risk by certain securitization participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rules are not yet finalized or effective. as a result, the ultimate impact of these dodd-frank act provisions on us remains unpredictable. the impact on us could be direct, by requiring us to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent a portion of the credit risk held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which we participate. since the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government backed) securitization activity than had previously been the case. it is unclear at present whether and to what extent the private securitization markets will rebound. in recent years we have only engaged in securitization transactions to a limited extent under circumstances where we might expect to be required to retain additional risk on our balance sheet as a result of implementation of these dodd-frank act provisions. if the market for private securitizations rebounds and we decide to increase our participation in that market, we would likely be required under the regulations to retain more risk than would otherwise have been the case, with currently uncertain financial impact. in addition, other securitization reforms mandated by the dodd-frank act or implemented or proposed by the sec may have the effect of limiting our ability to execute, or increase the cost of, securitization transactions. the impact of such reforms on our business is uncertain and difficult to quantify. in february 2011, the white house delivered a report to congress regarding proposals to reform the housing finance market in the u.s. the report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the gses and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the gses in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the gses can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. the extent and timing of any regulatory reform regarding the gses and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. additionally, legislation or regulation may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. for example, some commentators have expressed a view that proposed liquidity requirements, which will require certain banks to hold more liquid securities, may have the unintended consequence of reducing the size of the trading markets for such securities and thereby reduce liquidity in those markets. any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. for additional information, see the government supervision and regulation section in this form 10-k. 10 we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. in july 2013, the federal reserve issued final capital rules that replace existing capital adequacy rules and implement basel iii and certain requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act. the final capital rules consolidate and largely adopt unchanged the three proposals included in the june 2012 regulatory capital rules npr. when fully phased-in, these rules will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. under the final rules, our capital requirements will increase and the risk-weighting of many of our assets will change. under the final capital rules, tier 1 capital will consist of cet 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital, with tier 1 capital plus tier 2 capital constituting total risk-based capital. the required minimum capital requirements will be a cet 1 ratio of 4.5%; a tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, and a total capital ratio of 8%. in addition, a tier 1 leverage ratio to average consolidated assets of 4% will apply. further, we will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of additional cet 1. if we do not maintain the capital conservation buffer once it is fully phased in, then our ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonuses and to make share repurchases will be restricted. we will be required to comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratios as of january 1, 2015, which also starts the transition period for other requirements of the final rules and the capital conservation buffer. we have estimated our regulatory capital under basel iii under the final rules, and we provide that estimate and a reconcilement to u.s. gaap in table 36, "reconcilement of non-u.s. gaap measures - annual" in item 7, "md&amp;a", in this form 10-k. note that this estimate is consistent with our interpretation of the final rule and ambiguities in the final rule or other interpretations of the final rule could result in a larger measure of rwas and consequently a lower cet 1 capital ratio. if risk weightings of certain assets change, and we are required to hold increased amounts of capital as a result of holding those assets, the profitability of those assets and businesses may change, and longer-term this may result in changes in our business mix. the final rules will also gradually eliminate the contribution to tier 1 capital of certain trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities currently included in tier 1 capital. these securities will lose tier 1 capital status under the phased-in approach between 2013 and 2016, but will qualify for tier 2 capital treatment. at december 31, 2013, we had $627 million principal amount of such securities outstanding. additionally, the basel iii framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests, including a lcr, which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a specified time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a nsfr, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. in october 2013, the frb, jointly with other federal banking regulators, issued an npr to implement the lcr. these proposed rules are more stringent than the basel iii lcr in several respects, including, among other things, requirements for holding certain high quality liquid assets. the lcr npr provides for a modified lcr to apply to bhcs with over $50 billion in assets such as us, which generally sets the cash outflow parameters at 70% of those applicable to larger institutions. at this time, international regulatory authorities are still assessing the nsfr and it is unclear when the nsfr will be introduced as a requirement. in order to meet future lcr, we may alter the composition of our investment portfolio and/or balance sheet composition and this may adversely affect our earnings. under the proposed rule, banking organizations will be required to comply with the lcr during a phase-in period beginning january 1, 2015. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the frb issued a final capital plan rule effective in december 2011, which requires large bank holding companies, such as us, to submit annual capital plans to the frb for review and non-objection as part of ccar. pursuant to this rule, we annually submit a capital plan to the frb. as part of ccar, the frb evaluates banking organizations' capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions. under the dodd-frank act, we must also conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests and disclose certain information regarding the results of these stress tests. ccar includes a supervisory stress test to support the frb's analysis of the adequacy of banking organizations' capital. our capital planning under ccar requires an analysis of capital management and capital adequacy under a variety of hypothetical stressed economic scenarios. our performance under ccar's hypothetical scenarios dictates the capital actions the frb will allow us to take, such as dividends and share repurchases. in addition to the quantitative requirements of ccar, the frb also evaluates the qualitative aspects of our capital management program, which can also impact our capital actions. due to the importance and intensity of the ccar process, we have dedicated additional resources to comply with ccar, although no assurance can be provided that these resources will be deemed sufficient or that we will be deemed to have adequate capital under ccar's hypothetical scenarios. there can be no assurance that the frb will respond favorably to our pending and 11 future capital plan reviews. if we are deemed to have inadequate capital under ccar's hypothetical scenarios, then the frb may prohibit us from taking certain capital actions, such as paying or increasing dividends or repurchasing capital stock. the basel standards and frb regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as tier 1 capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. although not currently anticipated, the proposed basel capital rules and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. further, even if the frb approves a capital plan which we submit under ccar, such approval would not mean that other limitations do not exist on our ability to pay or increase dividends or repurchase stock. the need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than has been historically required could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. it could also depress our return on equity, thereby making it more difficult to earn our cost of capital. in addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, u.s. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and acquisitions. loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gses for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gses to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. we rely on other capital markets investors to purchase non-conforming loans (i.e., loans that do not meet gse requirements). since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity of those loans. in response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans, negatively impacting reserves, or we may originate less negatively impacting revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gses will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). as previously noted, proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gses in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the gses, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit 12 commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at december 31, 2013, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. for additional information, see the risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. our alll may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an alll to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. our alll is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. the current economic conditions in the u.s. and in our markets could deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our alll may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. if such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of alll associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan losses. on december 20, 2012, the fasb issued for public comment a proposed asu, financial instruments-credit losses (subtopic 825-15) (the credit loss proposal), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses under u.s. gaap. under u.s. gaap's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in the financial statements until it is probable that the credit loss has been incurred. under the credit loss proposal, an entity would reflect in its financial statements its current estimate of credit losses on financial assets over the expected life of each financial asset. the credit loss proposal, if adopted as proposed, may have a negative impact on our reported earnings, capital, regulatory capital ratios, as well as on regulatory limits which are based on capital (e.g., loans to affiliates) since it would accelerate the recognition of estimated credit losses. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. for example, we experienced the effect of concentration risk when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to the latest housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, particularly several florida msas. as florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially higher credit losses. a deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the "loans", "allowance for credit losses", risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a and notes 6 and 7 , "loans" and "allowance for credit losses", to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of npas are less than the carrying value of such assets. npas are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from ultimately disposing of the assets. we could realize losses in the future as a result of deteriorating market conditions if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of npas are less than the carrying value of such assets. 13 a downgrade in the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. on june 10, 2013, s&amp;p reaffirmed its government bond rating of the u.s. at aa+, while also raising its outlook from negative to stable. on july 18, 2013, moody's reaffirmed the government bond rating of the u.s. at aaa, while raising the outlook from negative to stable. on october 15, 2013, however, fitch placed its aaa rating of u.s. government debt on ratings watch negative. while the risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the u.s. government, including the rating of u.s. treasury securities, has been reduced, the possibility still remains. it is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the u.s. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government and the perceived creditworthiness of u.s. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. a downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. in addition, we presently deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate into government-sponsored institutions, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. such ratings actions, if any, could result in a significant change to our mortgage business. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. weakness in the non-agency secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. these conditions have resulted in losses, write-downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of unemployment, interest rate resets on arms or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased defaults in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. further, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own as a result of foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event that we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations, whether or not we were the originator of the loan. while in many cases we may have a remedy available against the originating broker or correspondent, often these may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to satisfy remedies that may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. since the beginning of 2006, we have received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these have resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps will not reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 14 during 2012, we recorded a $371 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, primarily related to loans sold to the gses prior to 2009, and the resulting mortgage repurchase reserve reflected the estimated incurred losses on repurchase demands for this population of loans. in 2013, suntrust reached agreements with fannie mae and freddie mac to address outstanding and potential repurchase obligations, and reserved an additional $63 million. accordingly, we expect that future mortgage repurchase provisions will decrease substantially from levels experienced in recent years. however, the 2013 agreements with fannie mae and freddie mac settling certain aspects of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases arising from certain types of events, and that preservation of rights can impact our future losses. we understand the fhfa's office of inspector general has commenced an audit of the fhfa's oversight of fannie mae's and freddie mac's exercise of their rights under settlement agreements with banks, including fannie mae's and freddie mac's preserved right to require repurchases when consumer protection laws have been violated. while the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of settling claims related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding gse and other counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. for additional information, see note 17 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and the following sections of md&amp;a in this form 10-k-"noninterest income and "critical accounting policies." we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gses. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 17 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. in addition to repurchase claims from the gses, we have received indemnification claims and in some cases, have been sued, by non-gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements about their quality because of missing or inaccurate documentation, fraud by borrowers, or fraudulent or inflated appraisals. see additional discussion in note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we face certain risks as a servicer of loans. also, we may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, the costs to perform contracted-for services has been increasing, which reduces our profitability. further, gses can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which became effective on january 10, 2014 and which may further increase the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. further, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. we may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. if a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. these costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. in addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. we may incur a liability to securitization investors 15 relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. the fair value of our msrs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. further, we may be subject to fines and other sanctions, including a foreclosure moratorium or suspension or a requirement to forgive or modify the loan obligations of certain of our borrowers, imposed by federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. as a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. in 2013, we completed an expanded review of our servicing advance practices. separately, we entered into an agreement to sell msrs on approximately $1 billion of upb of predominantly delinquent mortgage loans. as a result of the review and the msr sale, we refined our loss estimates and valuation methodologies for servicing advances, resulting in a $96 million charge to our earnings during 2013. in 2011, the frb conducted a horizontal review of the nation's largest mortgage loan servicers, including us. following this review, we and other servicers entered into a consent order with the frb. we describe the consent order in note 19, contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. the consent order required us to improve certain mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes and to retain an independent foreclosure consultant to conduct a review of residential foreclosure actions pending during 2009 and 2010 to identify any errors, misrepresentations or deficiencies, determine whether any instances so identified resulted in financial injury, and prepare a written report detailing the findings. on january 7, 2013, we, along with nine other mortgage servicers, entered into an amendment to the consent order with the occ and the frb to amend the 2011 consent order. this agreement ended the independent foreclosure review process created by the consent order, replacing it with an accelerated remediation program. we have taken actions to satisfy our commitments under the amendment to the consent order, and our financial results at december 31, 2013 reflect the expected costs of satisfying our financial obligations under the amendment to the consent order. as a result of the frb's review of our residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices that preceded the consent order, the frb announced that it would impose a $160 million civil money penalty. as permitted in the agreement with the frb, we expect to satisfy the civil money penalty by providing consumer relief and certain cash payments as contemplated by such agreement. we also continue with settlement discussions with the u.s. and states attorneys general related to mortgage servicing claims as discussed in note 19, "contingencies" to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we have accrued for the anticipated cost of resolving these and other potential claims in our financial results. financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may adversely affect our servicing and investment portfolios. our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. to the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. we may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances. similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. if a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replacement coverage is not obtained. we also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. the value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be adversely affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. in some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. in some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies have contributed to these delays. any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. we face risks related to recent mortgage settlements. on october 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the hud and the u.s. doj (collectively, the government ) to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from fha-insured mortgage loans originated by stm from january 1, 2006 through march 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the national mortgage servicing settlement. pursuant to the combined agreements in 16 principle, we have committed to provide $500 million of consumer relief, to make a $468 million cash payment, and to implement certain mortgage servicing standards. we are continuing to negotiate definitive settlement terms for each of these matters and have certain substantive disagreements with some of the positions being taken by the government. we may be unable to resolve our disagreements with the government and may not reach a definitive settlement agreement as it relates to the fha matter. if we do not reach a definitive settlement agreement, then the government may sue us alleging deficiencies in our fha loan origination practices. we are not able to predict the effect that a failure to resolve the fha matter will have on the agreement in principle to settle the alleged claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices. our financial statements at december 31, 2013 reflected our estimated cost of the settlements, and we are not able to predict what our ultimate cost to resolve these matters will be if we are not able to reach definitive settlement agreements. even if we were to reach a definitive settlement agreement with the government to resolve the alleged mortgage servicing and origination claims as contemplated by the agreement in principle, we face the risk of being unable to meet certain consumer relief commitments, resulting in increased costs to resolve this matter. additionally, while we do not expect the consumer relief efforts or implementation of certain servicing standards associated with the settlements to have a material impact on our future financial results, this expectation is based on anticipated requirements of the definitive agreements which the parties have not finalized. we may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies and practices. we seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting policies and practices, which often include analysis of a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. our underwriting policies, practices and standards are periodically reviewed and, if appropriate, enhanced in response to changing market conditions and/or corporate strategies. examples include: client eligibility requirements, documentation requirements, loan types, collateral types, ltv ratios, and minimum credit scores. prior reviews have resulted in more stringent documentation standards, lower maximum ltv ratios, and channel and client type restrictions. these actions have contributed to a reduction in exposure to certain higher risk portfolio segments, such as higher risk mortgage, home equity, and commercial construction. these actions have also contributed to declines in early stage delinquencies and npls. while these changes have resulted in improving asset quality metrics, elevated losses may continue to occur due to economic factors, changes in borrower behavior, or other factors. our mortgage production and servicing revenue can be volatile. we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. under the same conditions, revenue from our msrs can increase through reductions in the decay, or amortization, of the msr asset. when rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and mortgage servicing income tends to decline given increases in the decay, or amortization, of the msr asset. even though the msr asset can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, nor is it designed to be, either in amount or timing. servicing income can also be impacted by the change in the fair value of the msr asset due to changes in market interest rates and other assumptions, exclusive of decay of the msr asset. we use derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of the msr, exclusive of decay. the hedge may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage servicing income. during 2012, our mortgage production income benefited from high levels of refinancing activity and historically high gain on sale margins for our mortgage loans. in contrast, during the second half of 2013, increased interest rates caused mortgage applications and refinancing activity to decline substantially, and this adversely affected mortgage production income. our mortgage production income likely will continue to be depressed as long as gain on sale margins remain narrow and until refinance and purchase activity improves. we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 16 , derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. 17 changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the structure of the balance sheet, which includes all loans. variable rate loans, prior to any hedging related actions, are approximately 56% of total loans and approximately 43% of total loans after giving consideration to hedging related actions. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried at fair value. alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin-the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding-and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield catches up. the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if current economic conditions persist, we may continue to see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail under the caption enterprise risk management in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. during the third quarter of 2013, the federal reserve reaffirmed that a highly accommodative monetary policy will remain in effect for a considerable time after its asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. accordingly, the federal reserve conveyed that it anticipates maintaining key interest rates at exceptionally low levels, at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5% and its long-term inflation goals are not met. a persistent low interest rate environment likely will adversely affect the interest income we earn on loans and investments. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance 18 our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management section in the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our msrs and mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings. we have a sizable portfolio of msrs. an msr is the right to service a mortgage loan-collect principal, interest and escrow amounts-for a fee. we record msrs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. we initially measure all and carry all our residential msrs using the fair value measurement method. fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our msrs and any related hedges, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. we measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. we also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. we may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. for additional information, see enterprise risk management-other market risk and critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a, and note 9 , "goodwill and other intangible assets," to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. other businesses include investment banking, securities underwriting and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. securities underwriting, loan syndications and securities market making entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. 19 hurricanes and other disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural or man-made disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pcs, personal computers, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. 20 for example, during 2013, our main online banking website, as well as those of several other prominent financial institutions, was subject to a limited number of distributed denial of service attacks. the attacks against us, which were also generally publicized in the media, did not result in any financial loss, fraud or breach of client data or service disruptions of any materiality. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. additionally, the frb, the cfpb, and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or margin declines. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. 21 maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we might not pay dividends on our common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. further, in february 2009, the federal reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. since that time, the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, we expect that any substantial increase in our dividend will require the approval of the federal reserve. refer to the discussion under the caption "we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected," above. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp will increase to the extent that we pay dividends prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp. specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. our issuer ratings are rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. there were no changes to our primary credit ratings during 2013. on october 8, 2013, fitch affirmed our senior long- and short-term credit ratings and revised its outlook on our ratings from stable to positive. our credit ratings remain on positive outlook with s&amp;p and on stable outlook with moody's. future downgrades are possible, although not anticipated, given the stable or "positive" outlook from the three major rating agencies. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence 22 our funding costs. among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact on the cost of wholesale funding, as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the fdic. during the most recent financial market crisis and economic recession, our senior debt credit spread to the matched maturity 5-year swap rate widened before we received any credit ratings downgrades in 2009 and began to tighten before we received our most recent credit rating downgrade in november 2010. after the loss of our a-1 short-term credit rating in april 2009 and capital raises in may and june 2009, more recent credit rating downgrades had little or no detrimental impact to our debt credit spreads. we expect that a one notch downgrade would have a relatively small impact on our debt credit spreads. a one notch downgrade could impact our ability to maintain certain business deposits that are sensitive to credit ratings. if we were not able to maintain these deposits, we would have to replace this funding with wholesale or capital markets funding, which would be more expensive and therefore negatively impact our net interest margin and net interest income. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. additionally, our regulatory burden increases as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity requirements once our assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators likely would expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. during the recent credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. 23 we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations. we may suffer other negative consequences resulting from findings of noncompliance with laws and regulations, including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gses and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. for example, on october 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the hud and the u.s. doj to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from fha-insured mortgage loans originated by stm from january 1, 2006 through march 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the national mortgage servicing settlement. pursuant to the combined agreements in principle, we have committed to provide $500 million of consumer relief, to make a $468 million cash payment, and to implement certain mortgage servicing standards. see additional discussion of this in our earlier risk factor, "we face risks related to recent mortgage settlements." further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by the ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, in the past year, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 (firrea). courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, william h. rogers, jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, securities afs, certain loans, msrs, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based 24 on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb, sec, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and the restatement of previously filed financial statements. 25 our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various types of instruments and maturities. additionally, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see md&amp;a enterprise risk management, in this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. as one of the largest lenders in the southeast and mid-atlantic u.s. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the u.s., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions. a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from severely depressed levels during the last economic recession, economic growth and improvement in the housing market have been modest. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from low oil and commodity prices, a strong u.s. dollar, u.s. debt and budget matters, geopolitical turmoil, deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. in addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. if economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, then a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending are likely, which may reduce demand for our credit products, which would adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings. a deterioration in business and economic conditions that erodes consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our trading and debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses. legislation and regulation, including the dodd-frank act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position. we are actively regulated by federal and state agencies. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. regulation of the financial services industry has increased significantly. the regulation is focused on the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, rather than our shareholders, and may be adverse to the interests of our shareholders. we are subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the u.s., including new legislation and rule-making promulgated under the dodd-frank act. increased supervision, reporting, and significant new and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and in other jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct business may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, and may affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. a significant number of the provisions of the dodd-frank act still require extensive rulemaking and interpretation by regulatory authorities. in several cases, authorities have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the dodd-frank act and its effects on the u.s. financial system and suntrust will not be known for an extended period of time. nevertheless, the dodd-frank act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital and liquidity requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on 7 us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. for example, on october 1, 2011, final rules issued by the federal reserve became effective which limit the fees we can charge for debit card interchange, and this has reduced our noninterest income. in addition, several recent legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that have had an impact on our businesses and financial results, including frb and cfpb amendments to regulation e which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees and our provision of electronic funds transfer services for u.s. consumers to recipients in other countries. we also implemented policy changes to help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. these reduced our fee revenue. the dodd-frank act also established the cfpb , which has authority to regulate, among other things, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. the cfpb has been active in rule-making and enforcement activity, and already has imposed substantial fines on other financial institutions. among its other consumer-protective initiatives, the cfpb has placed significant emphasis on consumer complaint management. the cfpb has established a public consumer complaint database to encourage consumers to file complaints they may have against financial institutions, which the cfpb may use to focus enforcement actions and for rule-making. in addition, each financial institution is expected to maintain an effective consumer complaint management program. further, in 2013 the cfpb released final regulations under title xiv of the dodd-frank act in 2013 further regulating the origination of mortgages and addressing "ability to repay" standards, loan officer compensation, appraisal disclosures, hoepa triggers and other matters. the "ability to repay" rule, in particular, has the potential to significantly affect our business since it provides a borrower with a defense to foreclosure unless the lender established the borrower's ability to repay or that the loan was a "qualified mortgage" or met other exceptions to the rule. while qualified mortgages may provide certain safe harbors, the extent of these safe harbors remains unclear. our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may be affected by cfpb rules and may change as these and other rules are developed, become effective, and are interpreted by the regulators and courts. regulators recently published revised guidance which could affect the origination and distribution of leveraged loans. while we believe we comply with relevant regulatory requirements, regulators may limit the ability of banks to originate leveraged loans, such as by limiting the maximum leverage of issuers of such loans, or may limit the extent to which banks may hold leveraged loans in their loan portfolios. if regulators tighten leverage limits, structural elements including covenants or maturities, such actions could result in lower loan origination volumes and fees. if regulators impose portfolio limits, this could reduce the liquidity of leveraged loans, and may indirectly affect their value. a portion of our revenue comes from fees we charge clients for certain services that we provide to them, including fees for having insufficient funds in their accounts. the cfpb may issue rules that limit the fees we may charge, such as by setting a dollar or number limit to the amount of such fees. other regulatory changes may cause us to change the order in which we process checks. any of these changes might adversely affect fee revenue. additionally, legislation or regulation may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. for example, some commentators have expressed a view that proposed liquidity requirements, which will require certain banks to hold more liquid securities, may have the unintended consequence of reducing the size of the trading markets for such securities, and thereby reduce liquidity in those markets. any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. for additional information, see the government supervision and regulation section in this form 10-k. we are subject to changing capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these new guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. new regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as tier 1 capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. specifically, our primary regulatory, along with other banking regulators, have implemented new and more stringent capital and liquidity measurements that will impact us. in july 2013, the federal reserve issued final capital rules that replace existing capital adequacy rules and implement basel iii and certain requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act. these rules will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary than under the prior rules. under the final rules, our capital requirements will increase and the risk-weighting of many of our assets will change. further, in september, 2014, the federal reserve adopted a final lcr rule under the basel iii framework that requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. the tests, which include an lcr, are designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a specified time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario. also part of the lcr rule, an nsfr was designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. under the lcr rule our holdings of high-quality liquid assets will increase and the composition of our balance sheet will change. under the final capital rules, tier 1 capital will consist of cet 1 and additional non-common tier 1 capital, with tier 1 8 capital plus tier 2 capital constituting total risk-based capital. the required minimum capital requirements will be greater than currently required and include a cet 1 ratio of 4.5%; a tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, and a total capital ratio of 8%. in addition, a tier 1 leverage ratio to average consolidated assets of 4% will apply. further, we will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of additional cet 1 after a transition period to phase-in the buffer. if we do not maintain the capital conservation buffer, then our ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonuses and to make share repurchases will be restricted. a transition period applies to certain capital elements and risk weighted assets. one of the more significant transitions required by the final rules relates to the risk weighting applied to msrs, which will impact the cet1 ratio during the transition period when compared to the currently disclosed cet1 ratio that is calculated on a fully phased-in basis. specifically, the fully phased-in risk weight of msrs is 250%, while the risk weight to be applied during the transition period is 100%. the transition period is applicable from january 1, 2015 through december 31, 2017. we have estimated our regulatory capital under basel iii under the final rules and we provide that estimate, on a fully phased-in basis, and a reconcilement to u.s. gaap in table 34 , selected financial data and reconcilement of non-u.s. gaap measures in item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. note that this estimate is consistent with our interpretation of the final rule and ambiguities in the final rule or other interpretations of the final rule could result in a larger measure of rwas and consequently a lower cet 1 ratio. loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gses for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gses to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. we rely on other capital markets investors to purchase non-conforming loans (i.e., loans that do not meet gse requirements). since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity of those loans. in response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans, negatively impacting reserves, or we may originate less, negatively impacting revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gses will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). as previously noted, proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gses in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the gses, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. 9 while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at december 31, 2014, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if economic conditions worsen. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. for additional information, see the risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. our alll may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an alll to provide for credit losses associated with loan defaults and nonperformance. our alll is based on our evaluation of risks associated with our lhfi portfolio, including historical loss experience, expected loss calculations, delinquencies, performing status, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, and concentrations within the portfolio. current economic conditions in the u.s. and in our markets could deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our alll may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. if such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of alll associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan losses. in 2012, the fasb issued for public comment a proposed asu , financial instruments-credit losses (subtopic 825-15) (the credit loss proposal), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses under u.s. gaap. under u.s. gaap's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in the financial statements until it is probable that the credit loss has been incurred. under the credit loss proposal, an entity would reflect in its financial statements its current estimate of credit losses on financial assets over the expected life of each financial asset. the credit loss proposal, if adopted as proposed, may have a negative impact on our reported earnings, capital, regulatory capital ratios, as well as on regulatory limits which are based on capital (e.g., loans to affiliates) since it would accelerate the recognition of estimated credit losses. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. as florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially higher credit losses. a deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the loans , allowance for credit losses , risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a and notes 6 and 7 , loans and allowance for credit losses , to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. a downgrade in the u.s. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. on august, 5, 2011, s&amp;p downgraded the credit rating of the u.s. government from aaa to aa+. subsequently, on june 10, 2013, s&amp;p reaffirmed its government bond rating of the u.s. at aa+, while also raising its outlook from negative to stable. on july 18, 2013, moody's reaffirmed the government bond rating of the u.s. at aaa, while raising the outlook from negative to stable. further, on march 21, 2014, fitch upgraded its aaa rating of u.s. government debt from ratings watch negative to "stable." while the risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the u.s. government, including the rating of u.s. treasury securities, has been reduced, the possibility still remains. it is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the u.s. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government and the perceived creditworthiness of u.s. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. a downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. in addition, we presently deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate to government-sponsored institutions, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). we cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. such ratings actions, if any, could result in a significant change to our mortgage business. a downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the u.s. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies, or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. between 2006 and 2013, we received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. in september 2013, we reached a settlement with fannie mae and freddie mac to address outstanding and potential repurchase obligations. however, the 2013 agreements with fannie mae and freddie mac settling certain aspects of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases arising from certain types of events, and that preservation of rights can impact our future losses. while the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of settling claims related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding gse and other counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. for additional information, see note 16 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and the following sections of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k- noninterest income and critical accounting policies. in addition to repurchase claims from the gses, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non-gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. see additional discussion in note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements and critical accounting policies of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gses. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 16 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we face certain risks as a servicer of loans. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, the costs to perform contracted-for services has increased, which reduces our profitability. as a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. further, gses can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. we may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. if a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. these costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. in addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. we may incur a liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. the fair value of our msrs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. 11 we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. in some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. in some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies have contributed to these delays. any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our msrs and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates. we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations (mortgage production revenue). changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus the fair value of our msrs. an msr is the right to service a mortgage loan-collect principal, interest and escrow amounts-for a fee. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our msrs and any related hedges, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. similarly, we measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. we also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. we may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments, we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. for additional information, see enterprise risk management-other market risk and critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a, and note 9, goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we use derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of the msr, exclusive of decay. the hedge may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage servicing income. also, we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 17, derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans on our balance sheet. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried at fair value. alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. see additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the "market risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a , in this form 10-k. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could decline; the value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin-the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding-and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and 12 our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield catches up. the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the "enterprise risk management" section of item 7, md&amp;a , in this form 10-k. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt, and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management and "net interest income/margin" sections of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. also, potential new taxes on corporations generally, or on financial institutions specifically, would adversely affect our net income. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. other businesses include investment banking, securities underwriting and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. securities underwriting, loan syndications and securities market making entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters 13 affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. we are at risk of increased losses from fraud. recently, we have seen an increase in the frequency and sophistication of fraudulent activity. criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings which allows them to be more effective. the fraudulent activity has taken many forms, ranging from check fraud, mechanical devices attached to atm machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information. further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. for example, in 2014 several national retail merchants suffered data compromises involving the personal and payment card information of suntrust customers. the perpetrators of this fraud executed unauthorized charges against suntrust account holders which we were required to reimburse. while we may be entitled to full or partial indemnification from such merchants for their failure to protect our client's personal data, there can be no assurance that we will receive such indemnification, that it will be adequate, or that it will cover other losses such as lost profits or costs to reissue payment cards. further, as a result of increased fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems to detect and prevent fraud, and may need to make further investments in the future. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pcs, personal computers, and other mobile devices or software that are beyond our control. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. the internet and computing devices in general are prime targets for criminals who utilize sophisticated technology to seek, discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may, or may not, be generally known. in 2014 several vulnerabilities in core internet security technologies were announced and widely publicized in the media. these vulnerabilities increased the potential of loss or compromise for users of the internet until specific actions were taken by the user or entities outside our direct control. suntrust experienced no material loss or disruption of services relating to these vulnerabilities. 14 third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. as a necessary aspect of operating our business we must provide access to customer and sensitive company information to our employees, contractors, consultants, third parties and other authorized entities. controls and oversight mechanisms are in place to limit access to this information and protect it from unauthorized disclosure or theft. control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to the company or its executives or to gain competitive advantage. additionally, the frb, the cfpb, and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, devices, or software that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institution, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt 15 products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we might not pay dividends on our stock. holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so. further, in february 2009, the federal reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. since that time, the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, any increase in our dividend will require the approval of the federal reserve. refer to the discussion under the caption we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected, above. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp. specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact on the cost of wholesale funding, as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the fdic . see item 7, md&amp;a , "liquidity risk management. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bhc . in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra , and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the 16 acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity requirements once our assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators likely would expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. we are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. during the recent credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. in addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gses and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. for example, on october 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the hud and the u.s. doj to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from fha-insured mortgage loans originated by stm from january 1, 2006 through march 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the national mortgage servicing settlement. pursuant to the combined settlement, we agreed to pay $468 million. in addition, we agreed to provide $500 million of consumer relief and to implement certain mortgage servicing standards. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by the ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 (firrea). courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and ceo , william h. rogers, jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities 17 and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. we discuss these topics in greater detail in item 7, md&amp;a , "critical accounting policies, note 1 , significant accounting policies, and note 18 , "fair value election and measurement," to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. further, from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb , sec, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various types of instruments and maturities. additionally, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. see note 18 , fair value election and measurement" in this form 10-k. our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and the restatement of previously filed financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our 18 securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the enterprise risk management section of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. regulatory risks current and future legislation and regulation could require us to change our business practices, reduce revenue, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect business operations or competitiveness. as a financial institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation in the u.s. and in those jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct certain limited operations. the rules and regulations enacted under the dodd-frank act have expanded this regulation. increased supervision, reporting, and significant existing and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements limit the manner in which we do business. this rigorous regulatory framework may restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses; to engage in new or expanded business; to offer certain products and services; reduce or limit our revenue; subject us to increased and additional fees, assessments, or taxes; and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. our failure to comply with the laws, regulations, and rules governing our business may result in fines, sanctions, and damage to reputation. moreover, u.s. government officials have shown willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions, and criminal pleas associated with such actions can preclude a financial institution from engaging in certain business operations or offering certain products and services. certain regulators have been requiring admissions of wrongdoing by financial institutions in connection with settlement of enforcement actions. these enforcement trends increase exposure of financial institutions to civil litigation and reputation damage, leading to potential loss of customers. as the focus of financial services regulation is the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, and not protection of shareholders, this regulation may be adverse to shareholder interests. legislation or regulation also may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. in particular, recent rulemaking under the dodd-frank act includes new areas of regulation for which guidance is still being developed. other additional regulation that may be adopted could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and competitive position, and other negative consequences. for more detailed information regarding the regulatory framework to which we are subject, and a discussion of key aspects of the dodd-frank act , see the government regulation and supervision section in item 1 of this form 10-k. we are subject to increased capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and our failure to meet these would adversely affect our financial condition. we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must satisfy various and substantial capital and liquidity requirements, subject to qualitative and quantitative review and assessment by our regulators. regulatory capital and liquidity requirements limit how we use our capital, and can restrict our ability to pay dividends or to make stock repurchases. market risks the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. also, potential new taxes on corporations generally, or on financial institutions specifically, would adversely affect our net income. our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from severely depressed levels during the last economic recession, economic growth has been uneven. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from low oil and commodity prices, a strong u.s. dollar, u.s. debt and budget matters, significant central bank stimulus, persistent low interest rates in the u.s. and negative interest rates in some countries, geopolitical turmoil, and deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. for example, a small portion of our loans are made to energy-related firms and, to the extent oil prices remain low, they will be less able to meet their loan obligations. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or in any regional markets that we serve, any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results 7 and condition. also, adverse economic conditions in europe or other markets may have a contagion effect, thereby impacting us or our clients in the u.s. further, if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease, we would expect to incur higher charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur higher credit losses. a deterioration in business and economic conditions may also erode consumer and investor confidence levels and/or result in a lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, potentially reducing our interest income. it also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our capital markets-related businesses. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans on our balance sheet. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits measured at fair value. alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. see additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the "market risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could decline; the value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin (the difference between the yield we earn on our earning assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding) and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our interest income. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the "enterprise risk management" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may experience net interest margin compression and/or incur significant valuation losses on debt securities we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt, and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk 8 management and "net interest income/margin" sections of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our msrs and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates. we earn revenue from originating mortgage loans and fees for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations (mortgage production revenue). changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus the fair value of our msrs. an msr is the right to service a mortgage loan-collect principal, interest and escrow amounts-for a fee. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each day we evaluate the fair value of our msrs and any related hedges, and any net decrease in the fair value reduces the fair value of the msr asset and related hedge instruments, which in turn reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. similarly, we measure at fair value mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. we may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments, we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. for additional information, see enterprise risk management-other market risk and critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a, and note 9, goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we use derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of the msr, exclusive of decay. the hedge may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage servicing income. also, we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring and re-balancing. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 17, derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity. credit risks we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or if our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including about how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. also, to the extent we increase our consumer credit portfolio, we may be subject to greater risk than we have experienced in the past since such loans typically are unsecured and may be subject to greater fraud risk to the extent such loans are originated online. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at december 31, 2015, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if economic conditions worsen. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings and potentially capital. for additional information, see the risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. 9 we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the loans, allowance for credit losses, risk management-credit risk management and critical accounting policies-allowance for credit losses sections in the md&amp;a and notes 6 and 7, loans and allowance for credit losses, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. liquidity risks we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gse for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans that we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gse to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, resulting in decreased origination of non-conforming loans which reduces our revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gse will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gse in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the gse s, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. legal risks we are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. during the 2008-2010 financial crisis, we observed both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. the outcome of some of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19, contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. in addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gse and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. for example, on october 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle, and on june 17, 2014 we announced that we reached definitive agreements, with the hud and the u.s. doj to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from fha -insured mortgage loans originated by stm from january 1, 2006 through march 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the national mortgage servicing settlement. pursuant to the combined settlement, we agreed to pay $468 million. in addition, we agreed to provide $500 million of consumer relief and to implement certain mortgage servicing standards. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 (firrea). courts may uphold significant additional penalties 10 on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. other business risk we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, or borrower fraud, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. between 2006 and 2013, we received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. in september 2013, we reached a settlement with fannie mae and freddie mac to address outstanding and potential repurchase obligations. in addition to repurchase claims from the gse s, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non- gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. see additional discussion in note 19, contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements and critical accounting policies of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k. we face certain risks as a servicer of loans. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, the costs to perform contracted-for services has increased, which reduces our profitability. as a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. further, gse can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gse s. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 16, guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to do so depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers and small businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology , the rise of technology-based lenders and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions and obtain certain loan products without banks. for example, consumers and small businesses can pay bills , transfer funds and borrow money without banks. this could result in the loss of fee 11 income, the loss of client deposits , and consumer and small business loan balances and the income generated from those deposits and loans . we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. other businesses include investment banking, securities underwriting and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. securities underwriting, loan syndications and securities market making entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, a breach of client information, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving market and industry standards. the widespread adoption of new technologies has required, and likely will continue to require, us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. in addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or other investments could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and other investments. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. 12 additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. a credit downgrade might also affect our ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate customers. see item 7, md&amp;a, "liquidity risk management. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bhc. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra , and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity requirements once our assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators may expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these persons and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this proposed regulation may significantly affect the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. other risks our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and legal, model and compliance risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed 13 by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, due to certain inherent limitations. these include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and the restatement of previously filed financial statements. we are at risk of increased losses from fraud. criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective. the fraudulent activity has taken many forms, ranging from check fraud, mechanical devices attached to atm machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. additionally, an individual or business entity may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. many of these data compromises were widely reported in the media in 2015. further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems and controls to detect and prevent fraud. this will result in continued ongoing investments in the future. a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including hostile nation state actors. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pcs, personal computers, and other mobile devices or software that are beyond our control. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. the internet and computing devices in general are prime targets for criminals and others who utilize sophisticated technology to seek, discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may, or may not, be generally known. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale, our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic and political environment. as a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks 14 from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. as a necessary aspect of operating our business we must provide access to customer and sensitive company information to our employees, contractors, consultants, third parties and other authorized entities. controls and oversight mechanisms are in place to limit access to this information and protect it from unauthorized disclosure, theft, and disruption. control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to the company or its executives or to gain competitive advantage. additionally, the frb , the cfpb , and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, devices, or software that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institution, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operation. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operation. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. we discuss these topics in greater detail in item 7, md&amp;a, "critical accounting policies, note 1, significant accounting policies, and note 18, "fair value election and measurement," to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. further, from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. 15 depressed market values for our stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down some portion of our goodwill. goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. if the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the reporting unit's goodwill is not impaired. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. however, significant and sustained declines in our market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. see the "critical accounting policies" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k for additional information. our financial instruments measured at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various types of instruments and maturities. additionally, we elected to measure selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. changes in fair value of the financial instruments measured at fair value are recognized in earnings (or in other comprehensive income in some circumstances). these financial instruments are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may elect to measure additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. see note 18, fair value election and measurement" to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. risks related to our common stock our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry governmental and regulatory legislation or actions issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future changes in dividends and capital returns the addition or departure of key personnel cyclical fluctuations changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. we might not pay dividends on our stock. holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends that our board declares out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so. the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions generally would not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, any increase in our dividend requires the approval of the federal reserve. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp . specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. certain banking laws and certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or depository institution. also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank. there also are provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. in addition, our board will be authorized under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions, and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. these provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the enterprise risk management section of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. regulatory risks current and future legislation and regulation could require us to change our business practices, reduce revenue, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect business operations or competitiveness. as a financial institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation in the u.s. and in those jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct certain limited operations. our industry is facing more intense scrutiny from regulators and bank supervisors in the examination process, and more aggressive enforcement. this, together with increased reporting and significant existing and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements, limit the manner in which we do business and may restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses; to engage in new or expanded business; to offer certain products and services; reduce or limit our revenue; subject us to increased and additional fees, assessments, or taxes; and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. our failure to comply with the laws, regulations, and rules governing our business may result in fines, sanctions, and damage to reputation. further, regulators and bank supervisors continue to exercise qualitative supervision and regulation of our industry and specific business operations and related matters, such as resolution planning, aml and ofac compliance programs, and incentive compensation. any failure to satisfy regulators' substantive and qualitative expectations may adversely affect our business and operations. violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management or other qualitative practices also may be incorporated into the company's bank supervisory ratings. a downgrade in these ratings, or other regulatory actions and settlements can limit the company's ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities. also, in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of other terms of regulatory settlements have been increasing dramatically and are likely to continue to increase. in some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas, admissions of wrongdoing, or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. these enforcement trends also increase the exposure of financial institutions to civil litigation and reputation damage, leading to potential loss of customers. as the primary focus of financial services regulation is the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, and not protection of shareholders, this regulation may be adverse to our shareholders' interests. legislation or regulation also may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. in particular, recent rulemaking under the dodd-frank act includes new areas of regulation for which guidance is still being developed. other additional regulation that may be adopted could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and competitive position, and other negative consequences. for more detailed information regarding the regulatory framework to which we are subject, and a discussion of key aspects of the dodd-frank act , see the regulation and supervision section within item 1 of this form 10-k. we are subject to stringent capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and our failure to meet these would adversely affect our financial condition. we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must satisfy various and substantial capital and liquidity requirements, subject to qualitative and quantitative review and assessment by our regulators. regulatory capital and liquidity requirements limit how we use our capital and manage our balance sheet, and can restrict our ability to pay dividends or to make stock repurchases. market risks the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies significantly impact the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. they can also materially affect the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities, hedging instruments such as swaps, and servicing rights. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which can in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is also difficult to predict. additionally, the effect of any proposed tax reforms on us is uncertain. although proposed decreases to the federal corporate income tax rate could be favorable to suntrust, there can be no assurance that tax reform will occur. in addition, the potential elimination of tax credits and tax deductions, such as interest and other expenses, could partially or fully offset the reduction in the federal income tax rate and also could adversely affect loan growth and the value of certain tax-advantaged investments. 8 our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from severely depressed levels during the last economic recession, economic growth has been uneven. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from changes in oil and commodity prices, a strong u.s. dollar, u.s. debt and budget matters, significant central bank stimulus, a changing interest rate environment in the u.s., geopolitical turmoil, uncertainty with regards to the u.s. political landscape and impacts of any changes in law, regulation, and policy, deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or in any regional markets that we serve, any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. also, any further deterioration in global economic conditions could slow the recovery of the domestic economy or negatively impact the company's borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect exposure to these regions. such global disruptions can undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the company's businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, even if the company's direct exposure to the affected region is limited. further, if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease, we would expect to incur higher charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur higher credit losses. a deterioration in business and economic conditions may also erode consumer and investor confidence levels and/or result in a lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, potentially reducing our interest income. it also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock or fixed income market prices or client preferences could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets would likely adversely affect our capital markets-related businesses. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans and interest-bearing liabilities on our balance sheet. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, residential msr s, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits measured at fair value. our alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. see additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the "market risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; or the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could change adversely. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin (the difference between the yield we earn on our earning assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding) and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. higher interest rates may also tend to result in lower mortgage production income and elevated charge-offs in certain segments of the loan portfolio, such as cre, leveraged lending, credit card, and home equity. 9 the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our interest income. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve, or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the "enterprise risk management" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. we may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. there is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. for example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may experience net interest margin compression and/or incur significant valuation losses on debt securities or hedging instruments we hold as investments. to reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt, and take other strategic actions. we may incur losses when we take such actions. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management and "net interest income/margin" sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our servicing assets and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates. we earn revenue from originating mortgage loans and from fees for servicing loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions, and thus, the fair value of our residential msr and other servicing assets, such as consumer indirect and commercial mortgage loan servicing rights. a servicing right is the right to service a loan (collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts) for a fee. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our residential msr and other servicing rights can decrease. we regularly evaluate the fair value of our residential msr and any related hedges, and any net decrease in the fair value reduces the fair value of the msr asset, which in turn reduce earnings in the period in which the fair value reduction occurs. similarly, we measure at fair value mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management other market risk and critical accounting policies sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 9 , goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we use financial instruments, including derivatives, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans held for sale and the fair value of residential mortgage loan servicing rights, exclusive of decay. these hedges may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage production and servicing income. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring and re-balancing. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 17 , derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of any of our debt ratings, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity. credit risks we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or if our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, 10 and assets held for sale. the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including about how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. also, to the extent we increase our consumer credit portfolio, we may be subject to greater risk than we have experienced in the past since such loans typically are unsecured and may be subject to greater fraud risk to the extent such loans are originated online. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at december 31, 2016 , there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings and potentially capital. for additional information, see the risk management credit risk management and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the loans, allowance for credit losses, risk management credit risk management, and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and notes 6 and 7 , loans and allowance for credit losses, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. liquidity risks we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gse for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans that we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gse to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, resulting in decreased origination of non-conforming loans, which reduces our revenue. when we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gse will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gse in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the gse s, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. also, clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. clients typically move money from bank deposits to alternatives during rising interest rate environments, an environment that the u.s. is expected to see over the medium-term. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. a credit downgrade might also affect our ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate customers and our ability to conduct derivative business with certain clients and counterparties. see the "liquidity risk management" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. 11 legal risks we are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. during the recent financial crisis, we observed both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. the outcome of some of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. in addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gse and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 (firrea). courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. other business risks we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, or borrower fraud, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. between 2006 and 2013, we received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. in september 2013, we reached a settlement with fannie mae and freddie mac to address outstanding and potential repurchase obligations. also, the company bears a risk of loss of up to one-third of the incurred losses resulting from borrower defaults for multi-family commercial mortgage loans that the company sells to fannie mae (and that pillar sold to fannie mae prior to suntrust's acquisition of pillar). see the discussion of commercial mortgage loan loss share guarantee in see note 16, guarantees, for additional information. in addition to repurchase claims from the gse s, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non- gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. see additional discussion in note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements and the critical accounting policies section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we face risks as a servicer of loans. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, gse can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. also, as a servicer, we advance 12 expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gse s. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 16 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to do so depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. consumers and small businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology, fintech start-ups, increased use of peer-to-peer and other technology-based lenders, and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions and obtain certain loan products without banks. for example, consumers and small businesses can pay bills, transfer funds, and borrow money without banks. this could result in the loss of fee income, the loss of client deposits, and consumer and small business loan balances and the income generated from those deposits and loans. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company, which we consider a positive in that it may enhance our growth prospects and may reduce our overall volatility. however, this diversity subjects our earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties than if we were a less diversified company. other businesses in addition to banking that we operate include investment banking, securities underwriting and market making, loan syndications, and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. these businesses entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, a breach of client information, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. we may face more intense scrutiny of our sales, training, and incentive compensation practices. we face increased scrutiny of our consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance, and quality assurance and customer complaint resolution practices. although we have invested significant resources enhancing these processes in recent years, there can be no assurance that our processes or their results will meet regulatory standards or expectations. findings from self-identified or regulatory reviews may require responsive actions, including increased investments in compliance systems and personnel, or the payment of fines, penalties, increased regulatory assessments, or client redress, and may increase legal or reputational risk exposures. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and 13 otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that have elected to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. these new competitors have significantly changed the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. we continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology. the financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. we have invested in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to our products and services. on the retail side, this has included developments such as more sophisticated atm and expanded access to banking transactions through the internet, smart phones, tablets and other remote devices. this has allowed us to better serve our clients and to reduce costs. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in our operations, and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to renovate those legacy platforms. a failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving market and industry standards. the widespread adoption of new technologies has required, and likely will continue to require, us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. in addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bhc . in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra , and the 14 effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity requirements after our consolidated assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators may expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these persons and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this proposed regulation may significantly affect the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. additionally, the board of governors of the federal reserve system, the federal deposit insurance corporation, and the sec have jointly proposed rules which affect incentive compensation. these rules, if finalized, may adversely affect us by imposing costs and restrictions on certain of our businesses which are not imposed on non-bank competitors. other risks our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and legal, model and compliance risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as risks may exist, or develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, due to certain inherent limitations. these include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and/or the restatement of previously filed financial statements. we are at risk of increased losses from fraud. criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective. the fraudulent activity has taken many forms, ranging from debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to atm machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. additionally, an individual or business entity may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. an emerging type of fraud even involves the creation of synthetic identification in which fraudsters create individuals for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities, in order to 15 impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. many of these data compromises were widely reported in the media. further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems and controls to detect and prevent fraud. this will result in continued ongoing investments in the future. a failure in, or breach of, our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. we depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis and, in an ever-increasing environment of faster transactions, to do so in real time. as client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including hostile nation state actors. as noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet pcs, personal computers, and other mobile devices or software that are beyond our control. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. the internet and computing devices in general are prime targets for criminals and others who utilize sophisticated technology to seek, discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may, or may not, be generally known. third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale, our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic and political environment. as a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. as a necessary aspect of operating our business we must provide access to customer and sensitive company information to our employees, contractors, consultants, third parties and other authorized entities. controls and oversight mechanisms are in place to limit access to this information and protect it from unauthorized disclosure, theft, and disruption. control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to the company or its executives or to gain competitive advantage. additionally, the frb , the cfpb , and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, devices, or software that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness 16 of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operation. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operation. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the "critical accounting policies section of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. further, from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. we discuss recently issued accounting pronouncements, including both those which we have already adopted in full or in part, and those which we will adopt in the future, at note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. depressed market values for our stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down some portion of our goodwill. goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. if the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the reporting unit's goodwill is not impaired. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. however, significant and sustained declines in our market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. see the "critical accounting policies" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k for additional information. our financial instruments measured at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various types of instruments and maturities. additionally, we elected to measure selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, residential msr and other financial instruments at fair value. changes in fair value of the financial instruments measured at 17 fair value are recognized in earnings (or in other comprehensive income in some circumstances). these financial instruments are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader alm strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may elect to measure additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. see note 18 , fair value election and measurement" to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. risks related to our common stock our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry governmental and regulatory legislation or actions issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future changes in dividends and capital returns the addition or departure of key personnel cyclical fluctuations changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. we might not pay dividends on our stock. holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends that our board declares out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so. the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions generally would not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, any increase in our dividend requires a non-objection from the federal reserve. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp . specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or other investments could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and other investments. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. certain banking laws and certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or depository institution, and thus, unless the acquirer is able to rebut this presumption, it would be subject to various laws and regulations that bank holding companies are subject to. also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank. there also are provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. in addition, our board will be authorized under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions, and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. these provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the enterprise risk management section of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k , which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. regulatory risks current and future legislation and regulation could require us to change our business practices, reduce revenue, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect business operations or competitiveness. as a financial institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation in the u.s. and in those jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct certain limited operations. this regulation, together with increased reporting and significant existing and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements, limit the manner in which we do business and may restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses; to engage in new or expanded business; to offer certain products and services; reduce or limit our revenue; subject us to increased and additional fees, assessments, or taxes; and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. our failure to comply with the laws, regulations, and rules governing our business may result in fines, sanctions (including restrictions on business activities), and damage to reputation. further, regulators and bank supervisors continue to exercise qualitative supervision and regulation of our industry and specific business operations and related matters, such as resolution planning, aml and ofac compliance programs, and incentive compensation. any failure to satisfy regulators' substantive and qualitative expectations may adversely affect our business and operations. violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management or other qualitative practices also may be incorporated into the company's bank supervisory ratings. a downgrade in these ratings, or other regulatory actions and settlements, can limit the company's ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities. also, in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of other terms of regulatory settlements have been increasing dramatically. in some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas, admissions of wrongdoing, imposed limitations on asset growth, managerial changes, or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. these enforcement trends also increase the exposure of financial institutions to civil litigation and reputational damage, leading to potential loss of customers. as the primary focus of financial services regulation is the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, and not protection of shareholders, this regulation may be adverse to our shareholders' interests. legislation or regulation also may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. other additional regulation that may be adopted could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and competitive position, and other negative consequences. for more detailed information regarding the regulatory framework to which we are subject, and a discussion of key aspects of the dodd-frank act , see the regulation and supervision section within item 1, business, of this form 10-k. we are subject to stringent capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and our failure to meet these would adversely affect our financial condition. we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must satisfy various and substantial capital and liquidity requirements, subject to qualitative and quantitative review and assessment by our regulators. regulatory capital and liquidity requirements limit how we use our capital and manage our balance sheet, and can restrict our ability to pay dividends or to make stock repurchases. additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and/or liquidity requirements after our consolidated assets exceed $250 billion or our on-balance sheet foreign exposure exceeds $10 billion, and our regulators may expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. market risks the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies significantly impact the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. they can also materially affect the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities, hedging instruments such as swaps, and servicing rights. federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which can in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is also difficult to predict. additionally, certain aspects of recent u.s. federal income tax reform could have a negative impact on our business. the 2017 tax act limited or eliminated certain income tax deductions, such as the net business interest expense deduction, the home mortgage interest deduction, and the deduction of interest on home equity loans. the limitation or elimination of 8 these deductions, especially those that limit or eliminate the deductibility of interest paid on loans, could adversely affect demand for certain types of our products, such as home equity loans. our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition. we generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and wholesale businesses. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels experienced during the last economic recession, economic growth has been uneven. in addition, financial uncertainty stemming from changes in oil and commodity prices, a strong u.s. dollar, u.s. debt and budget matters, significant central bank stimulus, a changing interest rate environment in the u.s., geopolitical turmoil, uncertainty with regards to the u.s. political landscape and impacts of any changes in law, regulation, and policy, deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy or in any regional markets that we serve, any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. also, any further deterioration in global economic conditions could slow the recovery of the domestic economy, negatively impact the company's borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect exposure to these regions, and/or contribute to a flat yield curve. such global disruptions can undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the company's businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, even if the company's direct exposure to the affected region is limited. further, if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease, we would expect to incur higher charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur higher credit losses. a deterioration in business and economic conditions may also erode consumer and investor confidence levels and/or result in a lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, potentially reducing our interest income. it also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock or fixed income market prices or client preferences could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets would likely adversely affect our capital markets-related businesses. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans and interest-bearing liabilities on our balance sheet. we are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, afs investment portfolio, residential msrs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits measured at fair value. our alco meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by alco are reviewed and approved by our board. see additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the "market risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; or the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could change adversely. our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin (the difference between the yield we earn on our earning assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding) and the amount of earning assets we hold. changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. when interest rates 9 rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. higher interest rates may also tend to result in lower mortgage production income and elevated charge-offs in certain segments of the loan portfolio, such as cre, leveraged lending, credit card, and home equity. the amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our interest income. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the enterprise risk management and net interest income/margin sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. these hedges may not be effective and may cause volatility or losses in our net interest income. interest rates on our outstanding financial instruments might be subject to change based on regulatory developments, which could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and the value of those financial instruments. libor and certain other benchmarks are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor , publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. it is unclear whether, at that time, libor will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating libor will be established. if libor ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating libor change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those financial instruments, may be adversely affected. further, any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of libor as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the value of our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates. our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our servicing assets and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates. we earn revenue from originating mortgage loans and from fees for servicing loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions, and thus, the fair value of our residential msrs. a servicing right is the right to service a loan (collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts) for a fee. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our residential msrs can decrease. we regularly evaluate the fair value of our residential msrs and any related hedges, and any net decrease in the fair value reduces the fair value of the msr asset, which in turn reduce earnings in the period in which the fair value reduction occurs. similarly, we measure at fair value mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management other market risk and critical accounting policies sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 9 , goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we use financial instruments, including derivatives, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans held for sale and the fair value of residential msrs, exclusive of decay. these hedges may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our net interest income, mortgage production and mortgage servicing income. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring and re-balancing. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor , or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 17 , derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of contingency funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, fhlb capacity, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties 10 participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of any of our debt ratings, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity. credit risks we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or if our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including about how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. also, to the extent we increase our consumer credit portfolio, we may be subject to greater risk than we have experienced in the past since such loans typically are unsecured and may be subject to greater fraud risk to the extent such loans are originated online. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at december 31, 2017 , there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings and potentially capital. for additional information, see the risk management credit risk management and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the loans, allowance for credit losses, risk management credit risk management, and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and notes 6 and 7 , loans and allowance for credit losses, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. liquidity risks we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gse for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans that we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. we rely on gse to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, resulting in decreased origination of non-conforming loans, which reduces our revenue. when we retain a loan, not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan, but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gse will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gse in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the gse s, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. also, clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. clients typically move money from bank deposits to alternatives during a rising interest rate environment, an environment that the u.s. is currently experiencing and one that is expected to continue over the medium-term. higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including 11 conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. a credit downgrade might also affect our ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate customers and our ability to conduct derivatives business with certain clients and counterparties and could trigger obligations by us to make cash payments to certain clients and counterparties. see the liquidity risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. legal risks we are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increased as a result of the great recession. the outcome of some of these cases is uncertain. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, see note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. in addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gse and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, federal regulators have pursued financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 ( firrea ). courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. other business risks we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, or borrower fraud, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. an increase in the number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases. also, the company bears a risk of loss of up to one-third of the incurred losses resulting from borrower defaults for multi-family commercial mortgage loans that the company sells to fannie mae (and that pillar sold to fannie mae prior to suntrust's acquisition of pillar). see the discussion of commercial mortgage loan loss share guarantee in note 16 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information. in addition to repurchase claims from the gse s, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non- gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. see additional discussion in note 16 , guarantees, and note 19 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we face risks as a servicer of loans. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering 12 alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, gse can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. also, as a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily gse s. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 16 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. consumers and small businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology, fintech start-ups, increased use of peer-to-peer and other technology-based lenders, and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions and obtain certain loan products without banks. for example, consumers and small businesses can pay bills, transfer funds, and borrow money without banks. this could result in the loss of fee income, the loss of client deposits, and consumer and small business loan balances and the income generated from those deposits and loans. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company, which we consider a positive in that it may enhance our growth prospects and may reduce our overall volatility. however, this diversity subjects our earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties than if we were a less diversified company. other businesses in addition to banking that we operate include investment banking, securities underwriting and market making, loan syndications, investment management and advice, and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. these businesses entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. the reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the most recent financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues and recent sales-practices scandals. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, a breach of client information, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. actual or alleged conduct by another financial institution can result in negative public opinion about the financial services industry in general and, as a result, adversely affect us. we may face more intense scrutiny of our sales, training, and incentive compensation practices. we face increased scrutiny of our consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance, and quality assurance and customer complaint resolution practices. although we have invested significant resources enhancing these processes in recent years, there can be no assurance that our processes or their results will meet regulatory standards or expectations. findings from self-identified or regulatory reviews may require responsive actions, including increased investments in compliance systems and personnel, or the payment of fines, penalties, increased regulatory assessments, or client redress, and may increase legal or reputational risk exposures. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services 13 provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that have elected to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. these new competitors have significantly changed the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. we continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology. the financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. we have invested in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to our products and services. on the retail side, this has included developments such as more sophisticated atm and expanded access to banking transactions through the internet, smart phones, tablets and other remote devices. this has allowed us to better serve our clients and to reduce costs. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in our operations, and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to update those legacy platforms. a failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving market and industry standards. the widespread adoption of new technologies has required, and likely will continue to require, us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. in addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bhc . in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, 14 compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra , and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these persons and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly affects the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. additionally, the board of governors of the federal reserve system, the federal deposit insurance corporation, and the sec have jointly proposed rules which affect incentive compensation. these rules, if finalized, may adversely affect us by imposing costs and restrictions on certain of our businesses which are not imposed on non-bank competitors. other risks our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and legal, model and compliance risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as risks may exist, or develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the most recent financial crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, due to certain inherent limitations. these limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and/or the restatement of previously filed financial statements. we are at risk of increased losses from fraud. criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective. fraudulent activity has taken many forms and escalates as more tools for accessing financial services emerge, such as real-time payments. fraud schemes are broad and continuously evolving and include such things as debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to atm machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. additionally, an individual or business entity may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. an emerging type of fraud even involves the creation of synthetic identification in which fraudsters create individuals for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and 15 government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. many of these data compromises have been widely reported in the media. further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems and controls to detect and prevent fraud. this will result in continued ongoing investments in the future. our operational and communications systems and infrastructure may fail or may be the subject of a breach or cyber-attack that, if successful, could adversely affect our business and disrupt business continuity. we depend on our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions and to communicate with clients and other institutions on a continuous basis. as client, industry, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns, whether as a result of events beyond our control or otherwise. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; occurrences of employee error, fraud, or malfeasance; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and infrastructure that support our businesses and clients. while we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans, there can be no assurance in an escalating threat environment that they will be effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts. our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us or the industry. security risks for financial institutions such as ours have dramatically increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication, resources and activities of hackers, terrorists, activists, organized crime, and other external parties, including nation state actors. in addition, to access our products and services, clients may use devices or software that are beyond our control environment, which may provide additional avenues for attackers to gain access to confidential information. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, change, or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information (including personal identifying information of individuals), or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. other u.s. financial institutions and financial service companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, including attempts to shut down access to their networks and systems in an attempt to extract compensation from them to regain control. financial institutions, including suntrust, have experienced distributed denial-of-service attacks, a sophisticated and targeted attack intended to disable or degrade internet service or to sabotage systems. we and others in our industry are regularly the subject of attempts by attackers to gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems, and data, or to obtain, change, or destroy confidential data (including personal identifying information of individuals) through a variety of means, including computer viruses, malware, and phishing. in the future, these attacks may result in unauthorized individuals obtaining access to our confidential information or that of our clients, or otherwise accessing, damaging, or disrupting our systems or infrastructure. we are continuously developing and enhancing our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access. this continued development and enhancement will require us to expend additional resources, including to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities that may be detected. despite our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices, we are unable to assure that any security measures will be effective. if our systems and infrastructure were to be breached, damaged, or disrupted, or if we were to experience a loss of our confidential information or that of our clients, we could be subject to serious negative consequences, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of trust in us on the part of our clients, vendors or other counterparties, client attrition, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, significant litigation exposure and legal liability, or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention. any of these could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition, and/or our share price. a disruption, breach, or failure in the operational systems and infrastructure of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could adversely affect our business. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, central clearing counterparties, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. in particular, operating our business requires us to provide access to client and other sensitive company information to our contractors, consultants, and other third parties and authorized entities. controls and oversight mechanisms are in place that are designed to limit access to this information and protect it 16 from unauthorized disclosure, theft, and disruption. however, control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, human error, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss, or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to us or our executives or to gain competitive advantage. in addition, regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. if a disruption, breach, or failure in the system or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business occurred, our business may be materially and adversely affected in a manner similar to if our own systems or infrastructure had been compromised. as has been the case in other major system events in the u.s., our systems and infrastructure may also be attacked, compromised, or damaged as a result of, or as the intended target of, any disruption, breach, or failure in the systems or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business. natural disasters and other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on our operations or our financial condition and results. the occurrence of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, floods, and other large scale catastrophes, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we have significant operations and customers along the gulf and atlantic coasts as well as other regions of the u.s., which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes, tornados, and other severe weather in those areas. unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on us in that such events could materially disrupt our operations or the ability or willingness of our customers to access the financial services that we offer, including adverse impacts on our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral that we hold. these events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events and there can be no assurance that such business continuity plans will be effective. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearing counterparties, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. if the information that we rely on is not accurate or complete, our decisions about extending credit or entering into other transactions with clients or counterparties could be adversely affected, and we could suffer defaults, credit losses, or other negative consequences as a result. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operation. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operation. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the 17 uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the "critical accounting policies section of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. further, from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. we discuss recently issued accounting pronouncements, including both those which we have already adopted in full or in part, and those which we will adopt in the future, at note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. depressed market values for our stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down all or some portion of our goodwill. goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. if the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the reporting unit's goodwill is not impaired. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. however, significant and sustained declines in our market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. see the "critical accounting policies" section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k for additional information. risks related to our common stock our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: variations in our quarterly results changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry governmental and regulatory legislation or actions issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future changes in dividends and capital returns the addition or departure of key personnel cyclical fluctuations changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as cyber or terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. we might not pay dividends on our stock. holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends that our board declares out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so. the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions generally would not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, any increase in our dividend requires a non-objection from the federal reserve. additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the u.s. treasury as part of the cpp will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to december 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the cpp . specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or other investments could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and other investments. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not 18 sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. certain banking laws and certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or depository institution, and thus, unless the acquirer is able to rebut this presumption, it would be subject to various laws and regulations that bank holding companies are subject to. also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank. there also are provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. in addition, our board will be authorized under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions, and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. these provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the enterprise risk management section of the md&amp;a in this form 10-k , which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 11 risk factors the risks described in this form 10-k are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known or that we deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. merger-related risks f ailure to complete the merger with bb&amp;t (the merger ) could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results . if the merger is not completed for any reason, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price we may experience negative reactions from our customers, vendors and teammates we will have incurred substantial expenses and will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, including legal, accounting, investment banking and advisory fees, whether or not the merger is completed we will have been bound by certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the merger; such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of bb&amp;t (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may prevent us from making certain acquisitions or taking certain other specified actions during the pendency of the merger our management team will have devoted substantial time and resources to matters relating to the merger (including integration planning), and would otherwise have devoted their time and resources to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent financial institution in addition to the above risks, if the agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) is terminated and our board seeks another merger or business combination, the market price of our common stock could decline, which could make it more difficult to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration bb&amp;t has agreed to provide in the merger. if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $1.121 billion to bb&amp;t , which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. w e will be subject to uncertainties while the merger is pending, which could adversely affect our business . uncertainty about the effect of the merger on teammates and customers may have an adverse effect on us. these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change their existing business relationships with us. teammate retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as teammates may experience uncertainty about their roles with the surviving corporation following the merger. in addition, the merger agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions without the consent of bb&amp;t , and generally requires us to continue our operations in the ordinary course, until the merger closes. these restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger or may otherwise adversely affect our ongoing business and operations. t he merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed . the merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. those conditions include: the approval of the merger by our and bb&amp;t 's shareholders; the receipt of authorization for listing on the nyse of the shares of bb&amp;t common stock to be issued in the merger; the receipt of all required regulatory approvals; the effectiveness of the registration statement on form s-4 for the shares of bb&amp;t common stock to be issued in the merger; the absence of any order, injunction or other legal restraint preventing the completion of the merger or making the merger illegal; subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of representations and warranties under the merger agreement ; our and bb&amp;t 's performance of our and their respective obligations under the merger agreement in all material respects; and each of our and bb&amp;t 's receipt of a tax opinion to the effect that the merger will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. these conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may be delayed or may not be completed. we and bb&amp;t may elect to terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances. among other situations, if the merger is not completed by february 7, 2020, either we or bb&amp;t may choose not to proceed with the merger (unless the failure of the closing to occur by such date was due to the failure of the party seeking to terminate the merger agreement to perform or observe the obligations, covenants and agreements of such party set forth in the merger agreement ). we and bb&amp;t can also mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time. if the merger agreement is terminated, under certain limited circumstances we may be required to pay a termination fee of $1.121 billion to bb&amp;t . b ecause the market price of bb&amp;t common stock may fluctuate, our shareholders cannot be certain of the precise value of the merger consideration they may receive in the merger . at the time the merger is completed, each issued and outstanding share of our common stock (other than certain shares held by us or bb&amp;t ) will be converted into the right to receive 1.295 shares of bb&amp;t common stock . there will be a time lapse between each of the date of the proxy statement/prospectus for the shareholders meeting to adopt the merger agreement , the date on which our shareholders 11 vote to approve the merger agreement , and the date on which our shareholders entitled to receive shares of bb&amp;t common stock actually receive such shares. the market value of bb&amp;t common stock may fluctuate during these periods as a result of a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in bb&amp;t 's businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. many of these factors are outside of our and bb&amp;t 's control. in addition, if the merger is completed, the combined company may be subject to risks from operations that suntrust does not have today, such as bb&amp;t 's extensive insurance agency business. consequently, at the time that our shareholders must decide whether to approve the merger agreement , they will not know the actual market value of the shares of bb&amp;t common stock they will receive when the merger is completed. the actual value of the shares of bb&amp;t common stock received by our shareholders will depend on the market value of shares of bb&amp;t common stock at the time the merger is completed. this market value may be less or more than the value used to determine the exchange ratio stated in the merger agreement . o ur ability to complete the merger is subject to the receipt of approval from various federal and state regulatory agencies, which may impose conditions that could adversely affect us or cause the merger to be abandoned . before the merger may be completed, we must obtain the approval of various federal and state regulatory agencies, including the frb , the fdic , the north carolina commissioner of banks, and the georgia department of banking and finance. these regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the merger, and any such conditions could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or causing a termination of the merger agreement . there can be no assurance as to whether regulatory approval will be received, the timing of that approval, or whether any conditions will be imposed. hareholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the proposed merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations . we may incur additional costs in connection with the defense or settlement of any shareholder lawsuits filed in connection with the proposed merger. such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger. regulatory risks current or future legislation or regulation could require us to change our business practices, reduce revenue, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect business operations or competitiveness. as a financial institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation in the u.s. and in those jurisdictions outside of the u.s. where we conduct certain limited operations. this regulation, together with increased reporting and significant existing and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements, limit the manner in which we do business and may restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses; to engage in new or expanded business; to offer certain products and services; reduce or limit our revenue; subject us to increased and additional fees, assessments, or taxes; and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. our failure to comply with the laws, regulations, and rules governing our business may result in fines, sanctions (including restrictions on business activities), and damage to reputation. further, regulators and bank supervisors continue to exercise qualitative supervision and regulation of our industry and specific business operations and related matters, such as capital and liquidity requirements, aml and ofac compliance programs, and incentive compensation. any failure to satisfy regulators' substantive and qualitative expectations may adversely affect our business and operations. violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management or other qualitative practices also may be incorporated into the company's bank supervisory ratings. a downgrade in these ratings, or other regulatory actions and settlements, can limit our ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities. also, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of other terms of regulatory settlements can be extensive. in some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas, admissions of wrongdoing, imposed limitations on asset growth, managerial changes, or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. these enforcement trends also increase the exposure of financial institutions to civil litigation and reputational damage, which could lead to the loss of customers. as the primary focus of financial services regulation is the protection of depositors, fdic funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, and not protection of shareholders, this regulation may be adverse to our owners' interests. legislation or regulation also may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. for example, certain aspects of recent u.s. federal income tax reform could have a negative impact on our business. the 2017 tax act limited or eliminated certain income tax deductions, such as the net business interest expense deduction, the home mortgage interest deduction, and the deduction of interest on home equity loans. the limitation or elimination of these deductions, especially those that limit or eliminate the deductibility of interest paid on loans, could adversely affect demand for certain types of our products, such as home equity loans or jumbo mortgages. other additional regulation that may be adopted could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and competitive position, in addition to other negative consequences. for more detailed information regarding the regulatory framework to which we are subject, and a discussion of key aspects of the dodd-frank act , see the regulation and 12 supervision section within item 1, business, of this form 10-k. we are subject to stringent capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and our failure to meet these would adversely affect our financial condition. we, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must satisfy various and substantial capital and liquidity requirements, subject to qualitative and quantitative review and assessment by our regulators. regulatory capital and liquidity requirements constrain how we use our capital and manage our balance sheet, and can restrict our ability to pay dividends or to make stock repurchases. additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. we become subject to enhanced capital and/or liquidity requirements after our consolidated assets exceed $250 billion or our on-balance sheet foreign exposure exceeds $10 billion, and our regulators may expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size. market risks the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies can significantly impact the cost of funds for lending and investing, as well as the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which can have an impact on our net interest income. they can also materially affect the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities, hedging instruments such as swaps, and mortgage servicing rights. the resulting impact on interest rates as a result of federal reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers through higher debt servicing cost and potentially increase the risk that they may fail to repay their loan obligations. federal reserve policies could also create asset bubbles resulting from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, which could in turn cause volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is also difficult to predict. our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending activity or other businesses, as well as our financial condition and results. we generate revenue primarily from interest and fees charged on loans and other products and services that we provide. in particular, a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn within our consumer and wholesale business segments. these business segments have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the u.s. economy. although the u.s. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels experienced during the last economic recession, economic growth has been slow and uneven and the future economic growth environment is not certain. financial uncertainty stemming from volatility in oil and commodity prices, a strong u.s. dollar which adversely impacts exports and gdp, the rising level of u.s. debt and budgetary matters, a rapidly changing interest rate environment in the u.s., geopolitical tensions, trade disputes, uncertainty with regards to the u.s. political landscape and the impacts of any changes in law, regulation and policy, eroding business confidence and other effects of u.s. government shutdowns, tariffs, and potential contagion from deceleration of economic activity in other large countries have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. a prolonged period of slow growth in the u.s. economy as a whole or in any regional markets that we serve, any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results. also, any unanticipated deterioration in global economic conditions could adversely impact the domestic economy or financial markets, which could in turn negatively impact our borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect exposure to these regions, and/or contribute to a flat or inverted yield curve. for example, the final terms of the united kingdom's ongoing negotiations regarding its withdrawal from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ) remain uncertain, and could adversely impact economic and/or market conditions for us and our third parties. global disruptions can undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or create extreme market volatility, any of which could have significant adverse effects on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; even if our direct exposure to the affected region is limited. further, if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease, we would expect to incur higher charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. these conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also c&amp;i and cre loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. the ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur higher credit losses. deterioration in business and economic conditions may also erode consumer and investor confidence levels and/or result in a lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, potentially reducing our interest income. it also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. we earn fee income from managing assets for clients and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. changes in stock or fixed income market prices or client preferences could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. poor economic 13 conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets would likely adversely affect our capital markets-related businesses. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, as well as the availability and cost of capital and liquidity. market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and mve to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities on our balance sheet. we are also exposed to market risk associated with our assets and liabilities measured at fair value (i.e., trading securities, derivative instruments, securities afs, certain other equity securities, trading loans, certain lhfs and lhfi, residential msrs, brokered time deposits, and certain structured notes and fixed rate issuances included in long-term debt). the alco meets regularly and is responsible for review of interest rate risk positioning and the establishment of policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. the policies established by the alco are reviewed and approved by our board. see additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the market risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, our balance sheet can be sensitive to, and we must closely monitor, movements in market interest rates and spreads as well as the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; or the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could change adversely. our net interest income is the difference between the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other earning assets we hold and the interest expense we pay on deposits, debt, and other rate-bearing liabilities. net interest margin is the difference between the yield on our earning assets and the rate paid for deposits and other sources of funding. our net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin and the amount of earning assets we hold and changes in either net interest margin or the amount of our earning assets could affect our net interest income and our earnings. changes in the absolute level of interest rates can affect our net interest margin. although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. higher interest rates may also tend to result in lower mortgage production income and elevated charge-offs in certain categories of the loan portfolio. the amount and type of earning assets and rate-bearing liabilities that we hold can affect our yield, rate paid, and net interest margin. we hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. as noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our interest income. in addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons. changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest margin. normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. the interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. this could lower our net interest income and our net interest margin. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the enterprise risk management and net interest income/margin sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. we hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives; however, these hedges may not be fully effective and may cause volatility or losses in our net interest income. interest rates on our outstanding and future financial instruments might be subject to change based on regulatory developments, which could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and the value of those financial instruments. libor and certain other benchmarks are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor , publicly announced that it intends to stop requiring banks to submit libor rates after 2021. it is unclear whether, at that time, libor will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating libor will be established. although the federal reserve and various financial industry groups are engaged in efforts to develop and implement a replacement benchmark rate for u.s. dollar-denominated libor , it is uncertain when those efforts will be finalized or the extent to which any replacement will be accepted and utilized by market participants. if libor ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating libor change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those financial instruments, may be adversely affected. further, these effects could be different for each of our various financial instruments that are tied to libor rates, which could adversely impact our net interest income and net interest margin, force us to incur costs to re-balance our mix of interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, or cause us to re-form certain of our derivative instruments or other financial instruments. any 14 uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of libor as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the value and associated revenue and expenses of our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to libor rates. our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our servicing assets and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates. we earn revenue from originating mortgage loans and from fees for servicing loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions, and thus, the fair value of our residential msrs. a servicing right is the right to service a loan (collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts) for a fee. when interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the level of prepayments increases, the fair value of our residential msrs would decrease. we regularly evaluate the fair value of our residential msrs and related hedges, and any net decrease in the fair value of our msrs would in turn reduce earnings in the period in which the fair value reduction occurs. similarly, we measure at fair value mortgages held for sale for which there is an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. for example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. for additional information, see the enterprise risk management other market risk and critical accounting policies sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 10 , goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we use financial instruments, including derivatives, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans held for sale and the fair value of residential msrs. these hedges may not be fully effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our net interest income and mortgage related income. we generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring and re-balancing. we may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor , or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. there may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge interest rate risk. for additional information, see note 19 , derivative financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets and other sources of wholesale funding may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets and other sources of wholesale funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of wholesale funding available to us include secured borrowings from the fhlb , inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and secured borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets or these other sources of funding, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, including investors in fhlb obligations, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of any of our debt or credit ratings, including our credit risk rating with the fhlb , may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to timely raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity. credit risks we are subject to credit risk. when we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or if our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. changes in the credit quality of our portfolios can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded commercial credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, considering both borrower-specific and external conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. we might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. as an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. also, to the extent we increase our consumer credit portfolio, we may be subject to greater risk than we have experienced in the past because such loans typically are unsecured and may be subject to greater fraud risk to the extent such loans are originated online. while we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at december 31, 2018 , there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be 15 required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings and potentially capital. for additional information, see the risk management credit risk management and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. for additional information, see the loans, allowance for credit losses, risk management credit risk management, and critical accounting policies allowance for credit losses sections of item 7, md&amp;a, and notes 7 and 8 , loans and allowance for credit losses, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. liquidity risks we rely on the mortgage secondary market and gse for some of our liquidity. we sell most of the mortgage loans that we originate to reduce our retained credit risk and to provide funding capacity for originating additional loans. we rely on gse to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. investor demand for non-conforming loans has fallen sharply, resulting in decreased origination of non-conforming loans, which reduces our revenue. when we retain a loan, not only do we retain the credit risk of the loan, but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. a persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that gse will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or other changes in their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the u.s., including the role of the gse in the housing finance market. the extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the gse s, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain. loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs. we rely heavily on bank deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. we compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may consequentially increase, either because we also raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must therefore rely on more expensive sources of funding. also, our clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits if these clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive and stable source of funds, increasing our funding costs. clients typically move money from bank deposits to alternatives during a rising interest rate environment, an environment that the u.s. has been experiencing in recent years and one that could continue in the future. higher funding costs reduce our net interest income. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. credit ratings are one of a number of factors that influence our funding costs. a credit downgrade might also affect our ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate customers as well as our ability to conduct derivatives business with certain clients and counterparties which could trigger obligations by us to make cash or collateral payments to certain clients and counterparties. see the liquidity risk management section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k. legal risks we are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. from time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. the outcome of litigation and regulatory matters as well as the timing of ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict. we establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we may incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. in addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. the ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information, 16 see note 21 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. in addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the gse and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations. further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. for example, we are subject to regulations issued by ofac that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. ofac may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. additionally, federal regulators have pursued financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the financial institutions reform, recovery, and enforcement act of 1989 ( firrea ). courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses. other business risks we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, or borrower fraud, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. an increase in the number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases. also, we bear a risk of loss of up to one-third of the incurred losses resulting from borrower defaults for multi-family commercial mortgage loans that we sell to fannie mae (and that pillar financial, llc sold to fannie mae prior to suntrust's acquisition of pillar ). see the discussion of commercial mortgage loan loss share guarantee in note 18 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information. in addition to repurchase claims from the gse s, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non- gse purchasers of our loans. these claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. see additional discussion in note 18 , guarantees, and note 21 , contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we face risks as a servicer of loans. we act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. as a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties. in our capacity as a servicer, these contractual obligations include foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales. in our capacity as a master servicer, these contractual obligations include overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. however, gse can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. further, the cfpb has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. in addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. as a servicer, we also advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to contract termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. in addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. for certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. if we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims being made that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or we experience increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve. we also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, 17 primarily gse s. typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from gse service levels. in most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. while the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. see additional discussion in note 18 , guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. consumers and small businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect our revenue. technology, fintech start-ups, increased use of peer-to-peer and other technology-based lenders, and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions and obtain certain loan products without banks. for example, consumers and small businesses can pay bills, transfer funds, and borrow money without banks. this could result in the loss of fee income, the loss of client deposits, and consumer and small business loan balances and the income generated from those deposits and loans. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company, which we consider beneficial in that it may enhance our growth prospects and may reduce our overall volatility. however, this diversity subjects our earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties than if we were a less diversified company. other businesses in addition to banking that we operate include investment banking, securities underwriting and market making, loan syndications, investment management and advice, and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. these businesses entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending or sales practices, a breach of client or teammate information, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. actual or alleged conduct by another financial institution can result in negative public opinion about the financial services industry in general and, as a result, adversely affect us. we may face more intense scrutiny of our sales, training, and incentive compensation practices. we face increased scrutiny of our consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance, and quality assurance and customer complaint resolution practices. although we have invested significant resources enhancing these processes in recent years, there can be no assurance that our processes or their results will meet regulatory standards or expectations. findings from self-identified or regulatory reviews may require responsive actions, including increased investments in compliance systems and personnel, or the payment of fines, penalties, increased regulatory assessments, or client redress, and may increase legal or reputational risk exposures. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as banking services, data processing, business processes, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients, to support teammates and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that have elected to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. these new competitors have significantly changed the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater 18 financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. in addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction as it affects the ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire and in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. banks generally are facing the risk of increased competition from products and services offered by non-bank financial technology companies, particularly related to payment services and lending. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. we continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology. the financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. we have invested in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to our products and services. on the retail side, this has included developments such as more sophisticated atm and expanded access to banking transactions through the internet, smart phones, tablets and other remote devices. this has allowed us to better serve our clients and to reduce costs. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in our operations, and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to update those legacy platforms. a failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving market and industry standards. the widespread adoption of new technologies has required, and likely will continue to require, us to make substantial investments to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. in addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not perform as expected or achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our pre-integration operations. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bhc . in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the cra , and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these persons and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be adversely impacted. these risks may be exacerbated by our proposed merger with bb&amp;t . we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, both of 19 which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june 2010, the federal reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly affects the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. additionally, the frb , the fdic , the sec, and other federal regulatory agencies have jointly proposed rules which affect incentive compensation. these rules, if finalized, may adversely affect us by imposing costs and restrictions on the form of our incentive compensation which are not imposed on our non-bank competitors. other risks our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. we have established policies, processes, and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity, credit, market, operational, technology, reputational, legal, model, and compliance risk, among others. however, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as risks may exist, or develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. the most recent financial crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, due to certain inherent limitations. these limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, and that breakdowns can occur because of an error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, whether within or outside of our company, by collusion of two or more such people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and/or the restatement of previously filed financial statements. we are at risk of increased losses from fraud. criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques, and in some cases, are a part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective. fraudulent activity has taken many forms and escalates as more tools for accessing financial services emerge, such as real-time payments. fraud schemes, including occurrences of employee fraud, information theft, or other malfeasance, are broad and continuously evolving and include such things as debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to atm machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. for instance, in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the period ended march 31, 2018, we announced an investigation of a potential theft by a former employee of information from some of our contact lists. we proactively notified approximately 1.5 million clients that certain information, such as name, address, phone number, and certain account balances may have been exposed. the contact lists did not include personally identifying information, such as social security number, account number, pin, user id, password, or driver's license information. we heightened our monitoring of accounts and increased other related security measures to help prevent similar occurrences. additionally, individuals or business entities may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. an emerging type of fraud even involves the creation of synthetic identification in which bad actors create individuals for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. many of these data compromises have been widely reported in the media. further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems, resources, and controls to detect and prevent fraud, as well as increased spending to provide certain credit monitoring and identity theft protection services to our consumer clients. this will result in continued ongoing investments in the future. 20 our operational or communications systems or infrastructure may fail or may be the subject of a breach or cyber-attack that, if successful, could adversely affect our business or disrupt business continuity. we depend on our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions and to communicate with clients and other institutions on a continuous basis. as client, industry, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns, whether as a result of events beyond our control or otherwise. our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. for example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; occurrences of employee error, fraud, theft, or malfeasance; disruptions caused by technology implementation, including hardware deployment and software updates; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and infrastructure that support our businesses, clients, and teammates. while we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans, there can be no assurance in an escalating threat environment that they will be effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts. our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us or the industry. security risks for financial institutions such as ours have dramatically increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication, resources, and activities of hackers, terrorists, activists, industrial spies, insider bad actors, organized crime, and other external parties, including nation state actors. in addition, to access our products and services, clients may use devices and/or software that are beyond our control environment, which may provide additional avenues for attackers to gain access to confidential information. although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks, information security breaches, business email compromise, or information theft that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, change, or destruction of our or our clients' or teammates' confidential, proprietary, or other information (including personal identifying information of individuals), or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or our third parties' business operations. u.s. financial institutions and financial service companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, including attempts to shut down access to their networks and/or systems in an attempt to extract compensation from them to regain control. financial institutions, including suntrust, have experienced distributed denial-of-service attacks, a sophisticated and targeted attack intended to disable or degrade internet service or to sabotage systems. we and others in our industry are regularly the subject of attempts by attackers to gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems, and data, or to obtain, change, or destroy confidential data (including personal identifying information of individuals) through a variety of means, including computer viruses, malware, business email compromise, and phishing. these attacks may result in unauthorized individuals obtaining access to our confidential information or that of our clients or teammates, or otherwise accessing, compromising, damaging, or disrupting our systems or infrastructure. we are continuously developing and enhancing our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access. this continued development and enhancement will require us to expend additional resources, including resources to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities that may be detected. despite our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices, we are unable to assure that any security measures will be effective. if our systems and infrastructure were to be breached, compromised, damaged, or disrupted, or if we were to experience a loss of our confidential information or that of our clients or teammates, we could be subject to serious negative consequences, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of trust in us on the part of our clients, vendors or other counterparties, client or teammate attrition, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, significant litigation exposure and legal liability, or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention. any of these could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition, and/or our share price. a disruption, breach, or failure in the operational systems or infrastructure of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could adversely affect our business. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, central clearing counterparties, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. in particular, operating our business requires us to provide access to client, teammate, and other sensitive company information to our contractors, consultants, and other third parties and authorized entities. controls and oversight mechanisms are in place that are designed to limit access to this information and protect it from unauthorized disclosure, theft, and disruption. however, control systems and policies pertaining to system 21 access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, human error, intentional subversion, or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss, or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to us or our executives or to gain competitive advantage. in addition, regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. if a disruption, breach, or failure in the system or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business occurred, our business may be materially and adversely affected in a manner similar to if our own systems or infrastructure had been compromised. as has been the case in other major system events in the u.s., our systems and infrastructure may also be attacked, compromised, or damaged as a result of, or as the intended target of, any disruption, breach, or failure in the systems or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business. natural disasters and other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on our operations or our financial condition and results. the occurrence of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, floods, and other large scale catastrophes, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we have significant operations and customers along the gulf and atlantic coasts as well as other regions of the u.s., which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes, tornados, and other severe weather in those areas. unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on us in that such events could materially disrupt our operations or the ability or willingness of our customers to access the financial services that we offer, including adverse impacts on our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral that we hold. these events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events and there can be no assurance that such business continuity plans will be effective. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearing counterparties, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional investors and clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. if the information that we rely on is not accurate or complete, our decisions about extending credit or entering into other transactions with clients or counterparties could be adversely affected, and we could suffer defaults, credit losses, or other negative consequences as a result. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operation. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operation. some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. pursuant to u.s. gaap, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. if assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates 22 pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. we discuss these topics in greater detail in the critical accounting policies section of item 7, md&amp;a, and note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. further, from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. we discuss recently issued accounting pronouncements, including both those which we have already adopted in full or in part, and those which we will adopt in the future, at note 1 , significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. depressed market values for our stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down all or some portion of our goodwill. goodwill is periodically tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. if the fair value is greater than the carrying amount, then the reporting unit's goodwill is deemed not to be impaired. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. however, significant and sustained declines in our market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. see the critical accounting policies section of item 7, md&amp;a, in this form 10-k for additional information. risks related to our common stock our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: variations in our quarterly financial results changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry governmental and regulatory legislation or actions issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future changes in dividends and capital returns the addition or departure of key personnel cyclical economic or market fluctuations changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock our forward-looking statements or changes in our forward looking statements announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, mergers, acquisitions, or joint ventures the stock price of bb&amp;t (given the proposed merger) activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as cyber or terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, trade disputes or changes in tariffs, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. for the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision. we might not pay dividends on our stock. holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends that our board declares out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so. the federal reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions generally would not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. as a result, any increase in our dividend requires a non-objection from the federal reserve. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or other investments could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and other investments. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our owners. 23 certain banking laws and certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our owners. acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or depository institution, and thus, unless the acquirer is able to rebut this presumption, it would be subject to various laws and regulations that bank holding companies are subject to. also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank. there also are provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. in addition, our board will be authorized under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions, and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. these provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see enterprise risk management section in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k , which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k may contain forward-looking statements. statements that do not describe historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. these statements often include the words believes , expects , anticipates , estimates , intends , plans , targets , initiatives , potentially , probably , projects , outlook or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as may , will , should , would , and could . forward looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties. investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on such statements. actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the management of suntrust and on information currently available to management. the forward looking statements are intended to be subject to the safe harbor provided by section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). such statements speak as of the date hereof, and suntrust does not assume any obligation to update the statements included or incorporated by reference or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events. 6 factors that might cause our future financial performance to vary from that described in our forward-looking statements include risks discussed in the md&amp;a and in other periodic reports filed with the sec. in addition, the following discussion sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that we believe could cause actual future results to differ materially from expected results. however, other factors besides those listed below or discussed in our reports to the sec also could adversely affect our results, and the reader should not consider this list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. business risks as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our loans held for sale; an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, costs of capital or liquidity. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact on the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold, in particular, holdings in common stock of the coca-cola company, which as of december 31, 2006 were valued at approximately $2.3 billion; the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of assets for which we provide processing services; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support the business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the board of governors of the federal reserve system regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they also can materially decrease the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ). its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in federal reserve board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. a decline in the market for residential or commercial real estate could harm our revenues and profitability. a significant percentage of our assets are secured by residential or commercial real estate mortgages. our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. decreases in real estate 7 values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income than real estate loans. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing the company funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subjects the company to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect the company credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of the business infrastructure such as internet connections and network access. any disruption in internet, network access or other voice or data communication services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the ability to deliver products and services to clients and 8 otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in the business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. we rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. if any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. we are similarly dependent on our employees. we could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties own systems or employees. any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. we may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. in addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. industry risks regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. for more information, refer to item 1 - business beginning on page 1 of this form 10-k. 9 competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. future legislation could harm our competitive position. congress occasionally considers proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. if enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest margin and revenues from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. the parent company ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. the parent company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the parent company common stock and interest and principal on its debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. also, the parent company right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. limitations on the parent company ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the parent company liquidity and ability to pay dividends on common stock. for more information, refer to the liquidity risk section beginning on page 41 and note 14, capital, to the consolidated financial statements. 10 significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. we are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. company risks we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution record of compliance under the community reinvestment act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business to date has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our president and chief executive officer, james m. wells, iii, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. 11 we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement the business strategy. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( us gaap ). management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty of estimates about these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see the critical accounting policies section beginning on page 63 and note 1, accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; seasonal fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding suntrust or shares of our common stock; and announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. 12 our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by suntrust in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 39 which is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors the risks contained in this report are not the only risks faced by us. additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. this report also contains forward-looking statements that may not be realized as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, the risks described herein and in our other public filings with the sec. please refer to the section in this report entitled cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements for additional information regarding forward-looking statements. business risks weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations declines, or continues to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the southeastern and mid-atlantic regions of the united states, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. these factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sale of mortgage loans. declining real estate prices and higher interest rates have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly alt-a mortgages and home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. these trends could continue. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business, especially in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. 5 table of contents as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, costs of capital or liquidity. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact on the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold, in particular, holdings in common stock of the coca-cola company, which as of december 31, 2007 were valued at approximately $2.7 billion; the value of assets for which we provide processing services; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support the business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the board of governors of the federal reserve system regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ). its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in federal reserve board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. the remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. recently, we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud and early borrower payment defaults. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective nor impact risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 6 table of contents clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing the company funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subjects the company to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect the company credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings; significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. we rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. if any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. we are similarly dependent on our employees. we could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties own systems or employees. any of these occurrences could result in a 7 table of contents diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. we may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. in addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. industry risks regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. for more information, refer to item 1, business, of this form 10-k. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. future legislation could harm our competitive position. congress occasionally considers proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. if enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, 8 table of contents or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. the parent company ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. the parent company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the parent company common stock and interest and principal on its debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. also, the parent company right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. limitations on the parent company ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the parent company liquidity and ability to pay dividends on common stock. for more information, refer to the liquidity risk section in the md&amp;a and note 14, capital, to the consolidated financial statements. significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. we are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. company risks recently declining values of residential real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. we offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. a major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. we cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. we have experienced a downturn in credit performance, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 2007, and we expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near term. this deterioration has resulted in an increase in our loan loss reserves throughout 2007, which increases were driven primarily by residential real estate and home equity portfolios. additional increases in loan loss reserves may be necessary in the future. deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed 9 table of contents acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution record of compliance under the community reinvestment act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our president and chief executive officer, james m. wells iii, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement the business strategy. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. our accounting policies and methods are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( us gaap ). management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see the critical accounting policies section in the md&amp;a and note 1, accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can 10 table of contents materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; seasonal fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding suntrust or shares of our common stock; and announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by suntrust in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose the company to certain market risks. we maintain an available for sale securities portfolio and trading assets which include various types of instruments and maturities. compared to december 31, 2006, in 2007, we increased the size of trading assets in conjunction with the company adoption of the statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 157 and sfas no. 159. in addition, the company elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses and other trading assets at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value pursuant to the provisions of sfas no. 159 are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and the company market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. the company manages the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet entities affiliated with suntrust or its subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. 11 table of contents depending on the nature and magnitude of any transactions we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. we are subject to market risk associated with our asset management and commercial paper conduit businesses. during 2007, we recorded approximately $525 million in market valuation losses related to securities that we purchased from certain money market funds managed by our subsidiary trusco capital management, inc. as well as three pillars funding, llc ( three pillars ), a multi-seller commercial paper conduit sponsored by us. at the time of purchase, these securities were predominantly aaa or aa-rated, residential mortgage-backed securities, structured investment vehicle ( sivs ) securities, and corporate and consumer collateralized debt obligations. we cannot assure you that we will not sustain additional losses in the future related to these securities or the purchase of similar securities. the value of such securities may be effected by, among other things, a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities, deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral, risks associated with the financial guarantees insuring the securities, and/or the fact that the respective investment vehicle enters restructuring proceedings. such occurrences may materially adversely affect our financial condition, capital adequacy and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a which is incorporated herein by reference. 74 table of contentsrisk factors possible additional risks the risks listed here are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. recent market, legislative, and regulatory events difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. these write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities ( abs ) but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit and fraud losses. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. recently, volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. one of those considerations is the market capitalization of the company, evaluated over a reasonable period of time, in relation to the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. however, significant and/or sustained declines in the company market capitalization, especially in relation to the company book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. there can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the u.s. financial system and such legislation and programs may adversely affect us. on october 3, 2008, president george w. bush signed into law the eesa. the legislation was the result of a proposal by treasury secretary henry paulson to the u.s. congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. pursuant to the eesa, the treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities ( mbs ) and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the 6 table of contents u.s. financial markets. also on october 14, 2008, the treasury announced a program under the eesa pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the capital purchase program ). on october 14, 2008, the federal deposit insurance corporation announced the tlgp under the systemic risk exception to the federal deposit act ( fda ) pursuant to which the fdic would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the fdic by issuing financial institutions. we have participated in the capital purchase program and issued debt under the tlgp. there can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the eesa and its implementing regulations, the fdic programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets or our participation in either program on our results. the failure of the eesa, the fdic, or the u.s. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect us by increasing the uncertainty in our lending operations and expose us to increased losses, including legislation that would allow bankruptcy courts to permit modifications to mortgage loans on a debtor primary residence, moratoriums on a mortgagor right to foreclose on property, and requirements that fees be paid to register other real estate owned property. statutes and regulations may be altered that may potentially increase our costs to service and underwrite mortgage loans. additionally, federal intervention and operation of formerly private institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets. the impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the eesa and its implementing regulations, and actions by the fdic, cannot be predicted at this time. the programs established or to be established under the eesa and troubled asset relief program may have adverse effects upon us. because we participate in the capital purchase program, we are subject to increased regulation, and we may face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. for example, participation in the capital purchase program limits (without the consent of the treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the treasury pursuant to the capital purchase program increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. please also refer to our discussions of liquidity risk and capital resources in item 7 of this report. additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. participating in the capital purchase program also subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions. we discuss these in greater detail in our proxy statement, which we incorporate by reference into item 11 of this report. similarly, any program established by the fdic under the systemic risk exception of the fda, may adversely affect us whether we participate or not. our participation in the tlgp requires we pay additional insurance premiums to the fdic. additionally, the fdic has increased premiums on insured accounts because market developments, including the increase of failures in the banking industry, have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the fdic and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. treasury stress tests and other actions may adversely affect bank operations and value of shares. on february 10, 2009, the u.s. treasury secretary outlined a plan to restore stability to the financial system. this announcement included reference to a plan by the treasury to conduct stress tests of banks which received funds under the capital purchase program and similar treasury programs. the methods and procedures to be used by the treasury in conducting its stress tests, how these methods and procedures will be applied, and the significance or consequence of such tests presently are not known. any of these or their consequences could adversely affect us, our bank operations and the value of suntrust shares, among other things. business risks credit risk. when we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to 7 table of contents repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify. weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations decline, or continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the southeastern and mid-atlantic regions of the united states, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. these factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. declining real estate prices have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly alt-a mortgages and home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. these trends could continue. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased foreclosures in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. weakness in the real estate market may adversely affect our reinsurance subsidiary. the company has a subsidiary (twin rivers insurance company) which provides mortgage reinsurance on certain mortgage loans through contracts with several primary mortgage insurance companies. under these contracts, twin rivers insurance company ( twin rivers ) provides aggregate excess loss coverage in a mezzanine layer in exchange for a portion of the pool mortgage insurance premiums. the reinsurance contracts are intended to place limits on twin rivers maximum exposure to losses by defining the loss amounts ceded to twin rivers, as well as by establishing trust accounts for each contract. the trust accounts, which are comprised of funds contributed by twin rivers plus premiums earned under the reinsurance contracts, are maintained to fund claims made under the specific reinsurance contracts with individual primary mortgage insurers and are independent of each other. if claims exceed funds held in the trust accounts, twin rivers does not expect to make additional contributions beyond future premiums earned under the existing contracts. twin rivers maintains a reserve for estimated losses under its reinsurance contracts, which is an estimate of losses resulting from claims to be paid by the trusts. on an ongoing basis, twin rivers assesses the sufficiency of future revenues, including premiums and investment income on funds held in the trusts, to cover future claims. due to the deterioration of the real estate market and an increase in defaults under mortgage contracts, the funds in certain trusts may be less than the obligations created under such contracts. twin rivers does not believe it is required nor does it intend to make additional capital contributions to cover obligations in excess of funds held by the trusts; however, twin rivers profitability could be adversely affected if the primary mortgage insurance companies pursue twin rivers for such shortfalls. as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; 8 table of contents a loss of clients and/or reduced earnings could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the board of governors of the federal reserve system regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights ( msrs ). its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in federal reserve board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. the remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. recently, we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud. this increase in repurchase demands, combined with an increase in expected loss severity on repurchased loans due to deteriorating real estate values and liquidity for impaired loans, has resulted in a significant increase in the amount of accrued losses for repurchases as of december 31, 2008. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. 9 table of contents we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. we rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. if any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. we are similarly dependent on our employees. we could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties own systems or employees. any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. we may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. in addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. 10 table of contents industry risks regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. future legislation could harm our competitive position. federal, state, and local legislatures increasingly have been considering proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. if enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. we may not pay dividends on your common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. also, our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions is restricted due to our participation in the capital purchase program, which limits (without the consent of the treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including suntrust bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. 11 table of contents limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. we are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. company risks recently declining values of real estate, increases in unemployment, and the related effects on local economies may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. we offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. a major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. additionally, increases in unemployment also may adversely affect the ability of certain clients to pay loans and the financial results of commercial clients in localities with higher unemployment, which may result in loan defaults and foreclosures and which may impair the value of our collateral. risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. we cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur or increase in the future. deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. we have experienced a downturn in credit performance, which became significant in the third and fourth quarters of 2007 and continues. we expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near term. this deterioration has resulted in an increase in our loan loss reserves throughout 2008, which increases were driven primarily by residential and commercial real estate and home equity portfolios. additional increases in loan loss reserves may be necessary in the future. deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. although our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt was downgraded during 2009 by one of the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. 12 table of contents acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution record of compliance under the community reinvestment act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, james m. wells iii, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( u.s. gaap ). management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see the critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1, accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements, in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2008 for more information. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; 13 table of contents governmental and regulatory legislation or actions issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain an available for sale securities portfolio and trading assets which include various types of instruments and maturities. in addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses and other trading assets at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value pursuant to the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 159 are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. we are subject to market risk associated with our asset management and commercial paper conduit businesses. during 2007 and 2008, we recorded market valuation losses related to securities that we purchased from certain money market funds managed by our subsidiary ridgeworth as well as three pillars funding, llc ( three pillars ), a multi-seller commercial paper conduit sponsored by us. at the time of purchase, these securities were predominantly aaa or aa-rated, residential mbs, structured investment vehicle ( sivs ) securities, and corporate and consumer collateralized debt obligations. we cannot provide assurance that we will not sustain additional losses in the future related to these securities or 14 table of contents the purchase of similar securities. the value of such securities may be affected by, among other things, a lack of liquidity in the market for these securities, deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral, risks associated with the financial guarantees insuring the securities, and/or the fact that the respective investment vehicle enters restructuring proceedings. such occurrences may materially adversely affect our financial condition, capital adequacy, and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a which is incorporated herein by reference. 82 table of contentsrisk factors possible additional risks the risks listed here are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. recent market, legislative, and regulatory events difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. dramatic declines in the housing market over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. these write-downs, initially of abs but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. recently enacted legislation, legislation enacted in the future, or any proposed federal programs subject us to increased regulation and may adversely affect us. on october 14, 2008, the u.s. treasury announced a program under the eesa pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the cpp ). on october 14, 2008, the fdic announced the tlgp under the systemic risk exception to the fda pursuant to which the fdic would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the fdic by issuing financial institutions. we have participated in the cpp and issued debt under the tlgp. because we participate in the cpp, we are subject to increased regulation, and we face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our 7 table of contents participation. compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. for example, participation in the cpp limits (without the consent of the u.s. treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. in addition, the eesa, contains, among other things, significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation, which may have an adverse effect on the retention or recruitment of key members of senior management. also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the u.s. treasury pursuant to the cpp increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. similarly, any program established by the fdic under the systemic risk exception of the fda may adversely affect us whether we participate or not. our participation in the tlgp requires we pay additional insurance premiums to the fdic. additionally, the fdic has increased premiums on insured accounts because market developments, including the increase of failures in the banking industry, have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the fdic and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. recently, the federal reserve adopted amendments to its regulation e. these amendments will first apply to us on july 1, 2010. the changes will affect the circumstances when we will be able to charge our clients overdraft fees. on december 11, 2009, the u.s. house of representatives passed a bill entitled the wall street reform and consumer protection act (h.r. 4173). the senate is considering a similar bill entitled the homeowner protection and wall street accountability act (s-3). the legislation contained several changes to the regulatory system could adversely affect our business and the economies of the markets in which we operate. for example, the bill sets forth the establishment of a consumer protection agency which would exercise authority under existing consumer laws, have broad rule writing powers to administer and carry out its purpose and objectives, have the power to exempt certain persons or consumer financial products from its purview, have the power to examine or require reports from certain persons to ensure compliance with such agency mandates and have primary enforcement action over its mandates. the application of the powers of any consumer protection agency is unclear; however, it has been advocated by its proponents that such an agency would standardize consumer financial products and permit un-standardized products to be offered under very limited circumstances, among other things. such a limitation on the financial products we may offer may impact our ability to meet all of our clients needs and lead to clients seeking financial solutions and products through nonbanking channels outside the scope of this agency. additionally, the bill strengthens mortgage regulations, seeks to regulate derivatives markets and give regulators greater power over how bank executives are compensated. consequently, the increased expense of complying with an additional regulatory agency and regulations may adversely affect profits. we are not able to predict when or whether regulatory or legislative reforms will be enacted or what its contents will be. accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of any legislation on our businesses or operations. we are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our company and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. if we failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. in light of proposed changes in the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the basel committee on banking supervision and implemented by the federal reserve board, we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. we cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. we have not yet received permission to repay tarp funds. in order to repay the tarp funds we received, we must first receive approval from our primary federal regulator who will then forward our application to the u.s. treasury. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to repay our tarp funds, to date, we have not obtained the necessary governmental approval to repay such funds. until we repay our tarp funds, we will continue to be subject to the constraints imposed on us by the federal government in connection with such funds. emergency measures designed to stabilize the u.s. banking system are beginning to wind down. since the middle of 2008, a number of legislation and regulatory actions have been implemented in response to the recent financial crisis. some of these programs have begun to expire and the impact of the wind down of these programs on the financial sector and on the economic recovery is unknown. a stall in the economic recovery or a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 8 table of contents business risks we are subject to credit risk. when we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify. weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations do not improve, or continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and alll. a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the southeastern and mid-atlantic regions of the united states, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. these factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. declining real estate prices have caused cyclically higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly alt-a mortgages and home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on arms or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased foreclosures in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the continuing weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our lhfs or other assets; a loss of clients and/or reduced earnings could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on lhfs. changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general 9 table of contents economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of assets for which we provide processing services would decline; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the board of governors of the federal reserve system regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in federal reserve board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. the remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. we have received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud. this increase in repurchase demands, combined with an increase in expected loss severity on repurchased loans due to deteriorated real estate values and liquidity for impaired loans, has resulted in an increase in the amount of accrued losses for repurchases as of december 31, 2009. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. we may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies. we seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. these practices often include the analysis of a borrower credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. although we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, we have still incurred high levels of losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and borrower behavior. depressed market values for our stock may require us to write down goodwill. numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. one of those considerations is the estimated fair value of each reporting unit. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness several ways, including by aggregating the individual reporting unit fair value and analyzing the combined fair value in relation to the total estimated fair value of suntrust. we analyze the combined fair value of suntrust by reviewing a variety of indicators, including our market capitalization evaluated over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. however, significant and/or sustained declines in our market capitalization, especially in relation to our book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. 10 table of contents consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of natural disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. if any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. we are similarly dependent on our employees. we could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including 11 table of contents relating to break-downs or failures of such parties own systems or employees. any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, financial loss, potential liability to clients, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. we may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. in addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. the computer systems and network systems we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. these problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers. in addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. we are subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. however, during the current credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. while we do not believe that any single case will have a material adverse effect on us, the cumulative burden of these cases may adversely affect our results. industry risks regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal dif and the banking system as a whole. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies, can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints, including those competitors that have been able to repay tarp funds. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. future legislation could harm our competitive position. federal, state, and local legislatures increasingly have been considering proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions, bank holding companies and bank regulatory agencies. various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. if enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations. 12 table of contents maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. we may not pay dividends on your common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. also, our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions is restricted due to our participation in the cpp, which limits (without the consent of the u.s. treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including suntrust bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. we are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. company risks recently declining values of real estate, increases in unemployment, and the related effects on local economies may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. we offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. a major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. additionally, increases in unemployment have and may continue to adversely affect the ability of certain clients to pay loans and the financial results of commercial clients in localities with higher unemployment, which may result in loan defaults and foreclosures and which may impair the value of our collateral. risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. we cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may increase in the future. deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. we have experienced a downturn in credit performance, which became significant starting in the third and fourth quarters of 2007 and continued through 2009. this deterioration has resulted in an increase in our allowance for loan losses starting in 2008 and continuing throughout 2009, which increases were driven primarily by residential and commercial real estate and home equity portfolios. additional increases in the allowance for loan losses may be necessary in the future. deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with 13 table of contents our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. the current stress on the united states economy and the local economies in which we do business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. nonperforming assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from holding and ultimately dispensing of the assets. deteriorating market conditions could result in a realization of future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. in 2009 and 2010, credit rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings of suntrust bank and suntrust banks, inc. these downgrades and any subsequent downgrades could adversely impact the price and liquidity of our securities and could have an impact on our businesses and results of operations. our credit ratings are an important factor in determining both the available volume and the cost of our wholesale funding. on march 5, 2009, fitch lowered the credit ratings for suntrust banks, inc. and suntrust bank from a+/f-1 to a-/f-1. on april 23, 2009, moody downgraded the senior credit ratings for suntrust banks, inc. and suntrust bank from a1/p-1 and aa3/p-1, respectively, to baa1/p-2 and a2/p-1, respectively. on april 28, 2009, s&amp;p downgraded the credit ratings for suntrust banks, inc. and suntrust bank from a/a-1 and a+/a-1, respectively to bbb+/a-2 and a-/a-2, respectively. on february 1, 2010, s&amp;p downgraded suntrust banks, inc s. credit ratings to bbb/a-2 and suntrust bank credit ratings to bbb+/a-2. our credit ratings remain on negative outlook with moody and fitch, while s&amp;p maintains a stable outlook on our ratings. additional downgrades are possible. where our bank subsidiaries are providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may prompt customers of our bank subsidiaries to seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. in april 2009, we experienced a downgrade which affected a part of our business which we discuss in the management discussion and analysis liquidity risk section below. we cannot predict whether existing customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be further affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution record of compliance under the cra, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to 14 table of contents sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, james m. wells iii, and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. pursuant to recently enacted legislation, the u.s. treasury has instituted certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions. it is possible that the u.s. treasury may, as it is permitted to do, impose further requirements on us that may inhibit our ability to hire and retain the most qualified senior personnel. in addition, if we are unable to repay our tarp funds, we will continue to be subject to significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation and may be at a disadvantage to our competitors who have repaid tarp funds in our ability to recruit and retain the most qualified senior personnel. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, the federal reserve on october 27, 2009 published proposed guidance on sound incentive compensation policies. through this guidance, the federal reserve will regulate incentive compensation at financial institutions through its power to regulate the safety and soundness of the banking system. such regulation will apply to us even after we repay tarp. additionally, on january 12, 2010, the board of directors of the fdic published an anpr on employee compensation. the anpr seeks comment on how, and whether, the fdic risk-based deposit insurance assessment system applicable to all insured banks should be amended to account for risks imposed by employee compensation programs. citing a broad consensus that some compensation structures misalign incentives and induce imprudent risk taking within financial organizations , the fdic is considering establishing criteria to determine whether a financial institution employee compensation programs provide incentives for employees to take excessive risks. the fdic is concerned that such risk-taking increases the institution risk of failure and thereby could lead to increased losses to the dif. the anpr proposal could apply not only to compensation at the insured depository, but also at its parent and nonbank affiliates. under the approach outlined in the anpr, whether a financial institution compensation program either meets or does not meet the criteria would be used to adjust the institution risk-based assessment rate, thereby acting as an incentive for institutions that meet the criteria and a disincentive for those that do not. according to the anpr, the criteria that the fdic is considering are not aimed at limiting the amount that insured depository institutions can pay their employees, but rather are intended to compensate the dif for risks associated with certain compensation programs. at this time, we cannot predict the impact of the federal reserve proposed guidance or the fdic anpr. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with u.s. gaap. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see the critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1, significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. 15 table of contents changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain an available for sale securities portfolio and trading assets which include various types of instruments and maturities. in addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses and other trading assets at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. 16 table of contents we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a which is incorporated herein by reference. 79 table of contentsrisk factors the risks described in this report are not the only risks we face. additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. recent market, legislative, and regulatory events difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. persistent high unemployment and reduced consumer confidence, has led to widespread reduction of business activity generally and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, and increased market volatility. this has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. concerns over market volatility continue. the capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the financial crisis. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on asset prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. while markets stabilized in 2010, there can be no assurance that periods of market volatility and disruption will not occur and, if they do, that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 table of contents recently enacted legislation, legislation enacted in the future, and certain proposed federal programs subject us to increased regulation and may adversely affect us. on october 14, 2008, the u.s. treasury announced a program, the cpp, under the eesa pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions. because we participate in the cpp, we are subject to increased regulation, and we face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which we are subject as a result of our participation. compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. for example, participation in the cpp limits (without the consent of the u.s. treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. in addition, the eesa contains, among other things, significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation, and this may have an adverse effect on the retention or recruitment of key members of senior management. also, the cumulative dividend payable under the preferred stock that we issued to the u.s. treasury pursuant to the cpp increases from 5% to 9% after 5 years. additionally, we may not deduct interest paid on our preferred stock for income tax purposes. we have not yet received permission to repay tarp funds. in order to repay the tarp funds we received, we must first receive approval from our primary federal regulator who will then forward our application to the u.s. treasury. although we believe we have sufficient capital and liquidity to repay our tarp funds, to date, we have not obtained the necessary governmental approval to repay such funds. additionally, the federal reserve has required similarly-situated financial institutions to raise additional common equity as a prerequisite to repaying tarp, and there can be no assurance that we will not also be required to do so. until we repay our tarp funds, we will continue to be subject to the constraints imposed on us by the federal government in connection with such funds. the dodd-frank act makes fundamental changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, some of which may adversely affect our business. the dodd-frank act imposes new regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are (i) creating the cfpb to regulate consumer financial products and services; (ii) creating the financial stability oversight council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial firms; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the fdic for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the united states; (iv) limiting debit card interchange fees; (v) adopting certain changes to shareholder rights, including a shareholder say on pay vote on executive compensation; (vi) strengthening the sec powers to regulate securities markets; (vii) regulating otc derivative markets; (viii) making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and (ix) providing consumers a defense of set-off or recoupment in a foreclosure or collection action if the lender violates the newly created reasonable ability to repay provision; and (x) amending the truth in lending act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, disallowing mandatory arbitration, and prepayment considerations. regulators are tasked with adopting regulations that enact and define the breadth and scope of many of these changes. many of the regulations that must be adopted under the dodd-frank act have yet to be proposed, and it is difficult to gauge the impact of certain provisions of the dodd-frank act because so many important details related to the concepts adopted in the dodd-frank act were left within the discretion of the regulators. for example, the cfpb has the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers, which power it may exercise at its discretion so long as it advances the general concept of the protection of consumers. consequently, the impact of these regulations and other regulations to be adopted pursuant to the dodd-frank act are unclear, but may impact our ability to meet all of our client product needs, lead clients to seek financial solutions and products through nonbanking channels and adversely affect profits. moreover, the increased regulatory scrutiny set forth in the bill and the various proposed mechanisms by which the regulated entities reimburse the regulatory agencies for the increased costs associated with implementing the increased regulatory scrutiny will likely increase our cost of compliance, divert our resources and may adversely affect profits. among those regulations that have been proposed, the following may adversely affect our business: limitations on debit card interchange fees may affect our profits; changing the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, may increase our premiums and affect our profits; changing the methodology for calculating deposit insurance premium rates will become more complex, less predictable and more pro-cyclical, adversely affecting our profits and diverting our resources; changing the procedures for liquidation may adversely impact our credit ratings and adversely impact our liquidity, profits, and our ability to fund ourselves; increases in requirements for regulatory capital while eliminating certain sources of capital may adversely affect our profits; 9 table of contents the ability to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts may increase our interest expenses; and the increased regulation of derivatives and proprietary trading activities may adversely affect profits. these provisions may limit the types of products we offer, the methods of offering them, and prices at which they are offered. they may also increase the cost of offering these products. these provisions likely will affect different financial institutions in different ways, and therefore, may also affect the competitive landscape. suntrust bank may be subject to higher deposit insurance assessments. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the fdic amended its regulations regarding the assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of insured depository institutions during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. presently, we are assessed only on our domestic deposits, and this change may result in a substantial increase in the base to which the insurance rate is applied. the dodd-frank act also eliminates section 7(b)(2)(d) of the fdia, which provided that no insured depository institution may be barred from the lowest-risk category in the fdic deposit insurance assessment system solely because of size. the fdic has also proposed regulations that would change the way the deposit insurance assessment rate is applied to banks to a system that is risk-based. this makes a higher rate assessment possible. the cumulative effect of these provisions may be a significant increase in the deposit insurance assessment which may adversely affect our results. we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our company and our subsidiary bank and broker-dealers must meet guidelines subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. from time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. the capital framework and basel iii described in item 1 under government supervision and regulation, when implemented by the u.s. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for our company and our banking subsidiaries. under the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve, using a phased-in approach between 2013 and 2016, will no longer include trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities in tier 1 capital. at such future time, suntrust will have approximately $2.3 billion principal amount of such securities that are currently outstanding which we expect will be affected. such eventual loss of tier 1 capital, and actions to replace such capital, may adversely affect us. additionally, the basel iii framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests, including a lcr, which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, and a nsfr, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. if we fail to meet these minimum liquidity capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. the lcr and nsfr have proposed adoption dates beginning in 2015 and 2018, respectively. emergency measures designed to stabilize the u.s. banking system are beginning to wind down. since the middle of 2008, a number of legislative and regulatory actions have been implemented in response to the recent financial crisis. some of these programs have begun to expire and the impact of the wind down of these programs on the financial sector and on the economic recovery is unknown. a stall in the economic recovery or a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. business risks we are subject to credit risk. when we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. a number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. as one of the nation largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. we estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). this process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. as is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify. 10 table of contents our alll may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses. like other financial institutions, we maintain an alll to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. our alll is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. the current stress on the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we do business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing these loans. our alll may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. if such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of alll associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan loss expense. we will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. nonperforming assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from ultimately dispensing of the assets. deteriorating market conditions could result in a realization of future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of nonperforming assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations remain weak, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and alll. a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the southeastern and mid-atlantic regions of the u.s., in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. these factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. weakness in the non-agency secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. the effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, and mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. declining real estate prices have caused cyclically higher delinquencies and losses on mortgage loans, particularly alt-a mortgages, home equity lines of credit, and mortgage loans sourced from brokers that are outside our branch bank network. these conditions have resulted in losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. continued declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of unemployment, interest rate resets on arms or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased defaults in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the number of claims. additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. a decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. we originate and often sell mortgage loans. when we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. in addition, we may be required to 11 table of contents repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. while in many cases we may have a remedy available against the originating broker or correspondent, often these may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to satisfy remedies that otherwise may be available to us. therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. we have received a number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. these have resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. while we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps will not reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. if repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process. when we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. in some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. in some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies has contributed to these delays refer to management discussion and analysis nonperforming assets. any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. regulators and other law enforcement authorities in certain states and the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies have stated they are investigating whether mortgage servicers have had irregularities in their foreclosure practices. those investigations, as well as any other governmental or regulatory scrutiny of our foreclosure processes, could result in fines, penalties or other equitable remedies and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations and possible litigation. while we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any delay in foreclosure sales, or any issues that may arise as a result of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities, we may be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current foreclosure activities. this scrutiny may extend beyond our pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities. we expect that our costs will increase modestly in 2011 as a result of the additional resources necessary to perform the foreclosure process assessment, revise affidavit filings and make any other operational changes. this may result in higher noninterest expense, including higher servicing costs and legal expenses, in our mortgage line of business. in addition, process changes required as a result of our assessment could increase our default servicing costs over the longer term. finally, the time to complete foreclosure sales temporarily may increase, and this may result in an increase in nonperforming assets and servicing advances and may impact the collectability of such advances and the value of our msr asset. accordingly, delays in foreclosure sales, including any delays beyond those currently anticipated, our process enhancements and any issues that may arise out of alleged irregularities in our foreclosure processes could increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations. we may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies. we seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. these practices often include the analysis of a borrower credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. although we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, we have still incurred high levels of losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and borrower behavior. as a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the continuing weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; a decrease in the value of our lhfs or other assets; a loss of clients and/or reduced earnings could trigger an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on lhfs. 12 table of contents changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity. given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. in addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: the yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; the value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; the value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; or to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. they can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and msrs. its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. changes in federal reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. depressed market values for our stock may require us to write down goodwill. numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. one of those considerations is the estimated fair value of each reporting unit. the fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. the estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including our market capitalization evaluated over a reasonable period of time. while this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. however, significant and/or sustained declines in our market capitalization, especially in relation to our book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. when clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. for example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. this process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. we have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks. we are a diversified financial services company. this diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. large scale natural or man-made disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. the nature and level of disasters cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate change. the ultimate impact of a disaster on future financial results is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients. 13 table of contents negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. as a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale borrowings. significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. we rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. if any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. we are similarly dependent on our employees. we could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties own systems or employees. any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, financial loss, potential liability to clients, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. we may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural or man-made disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. in addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. the computer systems and network systems we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. these problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers. in addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. 14 table of contents we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. industry risks regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. we are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. this regulation is to protect depositors, the federal dif and the banking system as a whole. the u.s. congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or margin declines. we operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the dodd-frank act and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. we face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. the ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies, can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. this may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints, including those competitors that have been able to repay tarp funds. as a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. this can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. we may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. as a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. company risks we may not pay dividends on your common stock. holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. also, our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions is restricted due to our participation in the cpp, which limits (without the consent of the u.s. treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the bank. we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our 15 table of contents common stock and interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. additionally, if our subsidiaries earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. although our issuer ratings are still rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, those ratings were downgraded during 2009 and 2010 by the major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. in addition, on november 1, 2010, moody removed all systemic support assumptions from the parent company and the bank ratings while at the same time upgrading the bank stand-alone bank financial strength rating. the combination of these two actions resulted in the confirmation of the parent company senior credit ratings at baa1/p-2. however, the combination of the removal of systemic support assumptions and the upgrade of the stand-alone bank financial strength rating did lead to a one-notch downgrade of the long-term and short-term senior credit ratings for the bank from a2/p-1 to a3/p-2, respectively. moody concurrently upgraded the outlook for the parent company and the bank ratings from negative to stable . this ratings action concludes moody review of its systemic support assumptions for certain banks following the passage of the dodd-frank act. moody downgrade related to their previous announcement on july 27, 2010 that as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank act, moody would reconsider its systemic support assumption for ten regional banks, including the parent company and the bank, whose ratings were lifted through the recent financial crisis but may not be considered systemically supported outside of the crisis. moody analysis has previously included an assumption that some banks will receive extraordinary support from regulators because they are deemed systemically important. our credit ratings remain on stable outlook with s&amp;p, dbrs, and fitch, in addition to moody s. additional downgrades are possible although not anticipated given the stable outlook from all four rating agencies. we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits. we have historically pursued an acquisition strategy, and may continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. we may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. as a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, 16 table of contents the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution record of compliance under the cra, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. in addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. we are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. these claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. the outcome of these cases is uncertain. however, during the current credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. while we do not believe that any single case will have a material adverse effect on us, the cumulative burden of these cases may adversely affect our results. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on the expertise of key personnel. if these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer. the success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers, especially our chairman and chief executive officer, james m. wells iii, and our president and chief operating officer, william h. rogers, jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. we do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. if we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be impacted. we may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies. our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. we face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. pursuant to recently enacted legislation, the u.s. treasury has instituted certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions. it is possible that the u.s. treasury may, as it is permitted to do, impose further requirements on us that may inhibit our ability to hire and retain the most qualified senior personnel. in addition, until we repay our tarp funds, we will continue to be subject to significant restrictions on the payment of executive compensation and may be at a disadvantage to our competitors who have repaid tarp funds in our ability to recruit and retain the most qualified senior personnel. our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. further, in june, 2010, the federal reserve, the office of the comptroller of the currency, the office of thrift supervision, and the fdic jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. this regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with u.s. gaap. management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. a variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. in addition, the policies 17 table of contents and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. see the critical accounting policies in the md&amp;a and note 1, significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. from time to time, the fasb and sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. our stock price can be volatile. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; governmental and regulatory legislation or actions; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; changes in dividends; the addition or departure of key personnel; cyclical fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the exchange act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec rules and forms. we believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. we maintain at fair value a securities afs portfolio and trading assets and liabilities which include various types of instruments and maturities. in addition, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, securitization warehouses, msrs and other financial instruments at fair value. the changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. the financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. we manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader asset/liability management strategies. changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. we generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity, and equity markets. unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated 18 table of contents with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. we may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries. we engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. while we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances, these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market risk management in the md&amp;a which is incorporated herein by reference.