risk factors 26 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; an increase in unfavorable economic conditions or continued economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and shorthaul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions also hamper the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. the company continues to face challenges associated with economic uncertainty, and a weakened state of the u.s. and global economy could continue for an extended period of time. these conditions could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company's business has been significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel prices. fuel prices continue to present one of the company's most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel remains at high levels and continues to be both unpredictable and subject to volatility, and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. fuel prices can be volatile and unpredictable because of many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which has resulted in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in exchange rates. the company's ability to react to fuel price volatility can also be affected by factors outside of its control. for example, the company's profitability is affected in part by southwest's and airtran's ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases can be difficult to implement in difficult economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as the historical low-fare reputation of both southwest and airtran, the portion of their customer 26 base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. jet fuel and oil consumed for 2013 and 2012 represented approximately 35 percent and 37 percent of the company's operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the largest expense incurred by the company in both years. as a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the company's growth plans and many of the company's strategic initiatives. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but often seeks to protect against significant increases in fuel costs by entering into over-the-counter financial fuel derivative contracts. in addition, the company enters into some of these fuel derivative contracts in an effort to reduce volatility in its operating expenses. although the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes, because jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately six to 12 months into the future. however, the company has found that financial derivative instruments in other commodities, such as west texas intermediate (wti) crude oil, brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. as discussed in detail in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, derivatives that are designated as hedges and deemed effective ( i.e., that meet certain requirements under applicable accounting standards) are granted hedge accounting treatment, which can reduce volatility in the company's operating expenses. nevertheless, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time and due to the fact that the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments and at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards. in some situations, an entire commodity type used in hedging may cease to qualify for special hedge accounting treatment. as an example, during third quarter 2013, the company's routine statistical analysis performed to determine which commodities qualify for special hedge accounting treatment on a prospective basis dictated that wti crude oil based derivatives no longer qualify for hedge accounting. this is primarily due to the fact that the correlation between wti crude oil prices and jet fuel prices during recent periods has not been as strong as in the past, and therefore the company can no longer demonstrate that derivatives based on wti crude oil prices will result in effective hedges on a prospective basis. as a result, the changes in fair value of all of the company's derivatives based in wti have been recorded to other (gains) losses, and all future changes in the fair value of such instruments will continue to be recorded directly to earnings in future periods. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the impact of hedge accounting on the company's results of operations are discussed in more detail under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company has used financial derivative instruments for both shortterm and longterm time frames, and primarily uses a mixture of purchased call options, collar structures (which include both a purchased call option and a sold put option), call spreads (which include a purchased call option and a sold call option), and fixed price swap agreements in its portfolio. although the use of collar structures and swap agreements can reduce the overall cost of hedging, these instruments carry more risk than purchased call options in that the company could end up in a liability position when the collar structure or swap agreement settles. with the use of purchased call options and call spreads, the company cannot be in a liability position at settlement, but may be exposed to price changes beyond a certain market price. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled southwest to historically offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company's low-cost structure has become increasingly important as a result of the company's decision to limit capacity growth in 27 response to high fuel prices and uncertain economic conditions. while the company has in the past been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination of capacity control and increasing costs has contributed to an increase in the company's costs per available seat mile. the company has limited control over fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 35 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2013 , and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 31 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2013 . the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its cbas, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company's unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, have had pay scale increases as a result of increased seniority and contractual rate increases. furthermore, as indicated above under business-employees, approximately 99 percent of southwest's unionized employees, including those represented by nine of southwest's eleven unions, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements or have labor agreements that become amendable in 2014, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. in addition, the company anticipates that the combination of the various southwest and airtran labor contracts and frontline workforces will increase airtran labor costs over their historical levels. as discussed above under business-regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. additionally, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, the company will be required to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially. such commercial insurance could have material differences in coverage than is currently provided by the u.s. government and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest or airtran aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage. for example, in recent years the company's maintenance costs have been pressured with the aging of its fleet, which has required the company to spend more to maintain a portion of its fleet and to implement a related fleet modernization and replacement plan. further, some of the company's competitors have achieved substantially lower employee pay scales through bankruptcy than the company. additionally, in response to volatile fuel prices and economic uncertainty, some of the company's competitors have taken additional efficiency and cost reduction measures, such as capacity cuts and headcount reductions, which have reduced the company's cost advantage. further, other competitors have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, some competitors have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. some of the company's competitors have taken advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, to decrease operating costs through renegotiated labor, supply, and financing agreements. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant expected cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations. in addition, technology is critical to the success of the company's strategic initiatives. in recent years the company has been committed to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. for example, the company has invested in significant technology changes to support initiatives such as the implementation of connecting capabilities between the southwest and airtran reservations systems, southwest's rapid rewards 28 frequent flyer program, introduction of the boeing 737-800 to its fleet, enhanced southwest.com website, wifi implementation, and live television connectivity. in addition, the company has added new reservation system technology to support southwest's international itineraries and, in january 2014, began selling its first international itineraries to be flown by southwest aircraft. the company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other things, (i) continued improvement of its revenue management technical capabilities, (ii) replacement of southwest's existing domestic reservation system with a comprehensive system that would provide southwest with the ability to serve both domestic and international markets, and (iii) a new suite of operational tools that the company expects will improve operational management. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. for example, new software was developed for pilot scheduling in response to the dot's and faa's new flight, duty, and rest regulations that went into effect in january 2014. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and may divert management's attention from other key initiatives. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company may occasionally experience system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. this in turn could reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services. the company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives or if the company were unable to employ sufficient numbers of qualified employees to maintain its operations. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 31 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2013 . in addition, as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 83 percent of the company's employees (including airtran employees) were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees' representatives. however, as indicated above under business-employees, approximately 99 percent of southwest's unionized employees, including those represented by nine of southwest's eleven unions, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements or have labor agreements that become amendable in 2014, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. increasing labor costs, whether or not combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company's competitive position. the company's success also depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. competition for skilled personnel may intensify if overall industry capacity increases and/or if high levels of current personnel reach retirement age. the company may be required to increase existing levels of compensation to retain or supplement its skilled 29 workforce. the inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key skilled personnel could adversely affect the company's operations. the company may be unable to successfully complete the integration of airtran's business and realize the anticipated benefits of its acquisition of airtran. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer than anticipated to realize. risk factors associated with the company's acquisition and integration of airtran are discussed below under risk factors related to the company's acquisition and integration of airtran. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 or boeing 717 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, currently outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. to enable southwest to sustain the benefits associated with operating a single aircraft type, in july 2012 the company entered into an agreement with delta air lines, inc. and boeing capital corp. to lease or sublease all 88 of airtran's boeing 717-200 aircraft to delta. deliveries to delta began in september 2013 at the rate of approximately three aircraft per month. as of december 31, 2013, 22 of airtran's boeing 717-200 aircraft had been removed from service and 13 had been delivered to delta. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. the company must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties in the ordinary course of its business. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventive and detective measures put in place by the company. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement its revenue and other initiatives. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, less than satisfactory returns on capital caused by the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing jet fuel costs led to the company's decision to limit organic growth for the indefinite future. in addition, organic growth has become increasingly difficult, because (i) the number of opportunities for domestic expansion has declined; (ii) with the exception of airtran's near- 30 international service, the company currently does not have international service; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the success of revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. the company cannot ensure the timing of implementation of certain of its initiatives or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company's credit ratings and can also negatively affect the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company's liquidity generally. during the recession in 2009, the company's credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and an extraordinarily volatile fuel price environment. while the company's credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company's liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade would subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for shorthaul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the air traffic control system, which is operated by the faa, could continue to face airspace and/or airport congestion challenges in the future, which could limit the company's opportunities for growth. as discussed above under business - regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's initiatives and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; 31 changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards, such as the new faa regulations with respect to pilot flight/duty time limitations and rest requirements discussed above under business -regulation ; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares, such as the dot's full-fare advertising rule discussed above under business -regulation ; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company's results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company's costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential faa budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business - competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and codesharing and similar activities. 32 risk factors related to the company's acquisition and integration of airtran the company may be unable to effectively complete the integration of airtran's business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer to realize than currently anticipated. the company must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of airtran. potential difficulties the company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the airtran business with that of the company in a manner that permits the company to achieve anticipated net synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition; the inability to successfully maintain passenger unit revenues upon converting airtran into the southwest business model; the challenges associated with new international operations, including compliance with international laws; the challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, facilities, and other assets of the company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; the challenges associated with integrating the company's workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the company currently anticipates, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays, including costs to integrate airtran's business that may exceed the company's estimates. any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies or the company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, or could reduce the company's earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. in addition, integration requirements have caused, and may continue to cause, the company to delay other strategic initiatives. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, and other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations, including its international operations. upon completion of the company's acquisition of airtran, the size of the company's business increased significantly beyond the then current size of either the company's or airtran's businesses. the company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. as the company expands its international flight offerings, the u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) will become an increasingly important federal presence. cbp personnel and cbp-mandated procedures can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company will make significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with the inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short term or the long term. international flying will require southwest to modify certain processes, as the entire airport experience is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, open-air terminals, and cultural preferences. the company's expansion, initially through airtran, of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations 33 in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. law. further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. law governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. the need to integrate airtran's workforce presents the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, or labor disputes that could adversely affect the company's operations and costs. the successful integration of airtran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depend significantly on integrating airtran's employees into the company and on maintaining productive employee relations. failure to do so presents the potential for (i) delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration or (ii) labor disputes that could adversely affect the company's operations and costs. in addition, disputes regarding the integration of airtran employees could negatively affect the company's historically positive employee culture. pending operational integration of airtran with the company, it will be necessary to maintain a fence between southwest and airtran employee groups subject to cbas, during which time the company and airtran will continue to keep the employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing cbas, unless other terms have been negotiated. the company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, substantial expenses related to the acquisition and integration of airtran's business. the company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, substantial integration and transition expenses in connection with the acquisition of airtran, including the necessary costs associated with integrating the operations of southwest and airtran. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, and flight operations. while the company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the financial benefits the company expects to achieve from the acquisition, including the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses likely will continue to result in the company taking substantial charges against earnings in future periods, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. the company will need to continue certain branding or rebranding initiatives in connection with the acquisition that may take a significant amount of time and involve substantial additional costs and that may not be favorably received by customers. the company may incur substantial additional costs in rebranding airtran's products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the southwest brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by airtran in any of airtran's markets. the failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the company's ability to attract and retain customers, which could cause the company not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits contemplated to result from the acquisition. airtran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against airtran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleged, among other things, that airtran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of section 2 of the sherman act, and conspired with delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item 34 of checked luggage in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. after the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; and las vegas, nevada. all of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in atlanta. a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action on february 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. in addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to airtran and to delta, the consolidated amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys' fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed plaintiffs' claims that airtran and delta had violated section 2 of the sherman act; the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines' capacity and pricing decisions. on june 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which airtran and delta have opposed. the parties have submitted briefs on class certification, and airtran filed a motion to exclude the class certification reports of plaintiffs' expert. the court has not yet ruled on the class certification motion or the related motion to exclude plaintiffs' expert. the parties engaged in extensive discovery, which was extended due to discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta, but discovery has now closed. on june 18, 2012, the parties filed a stipulation and order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that airtran and delta conspired to reduce capacity. on august 31, 2012, airtran and delta moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs' remaining claims, but discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta have delayed further briefing on summary judgment. on november 15, 2013, the court entered an order referring the case to mediation, and the mediation is scheduled to begin on february 4, 2014. on december 2, 2013, plaintiffs moved for discovery sanctions against delta, and the court has suspended further briefing on the motions for class certification, to exclude plaintiffs' expert on class certification, and for summary judgment until the sanctions motion is resolved. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the consolidated amended complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company's financial results. in accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the company recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet to the extent the airtran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of airtran's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. future impairment of goodwill could be recorded in the company's results of operations as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the company's control. factors which could result in an impairment, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to the company's operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company's financial results. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2013 , southwest and airtran operated a total of 164 aircraft in service under operating and capital leases. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short term and a long term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.8 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2014 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $ 18 million for 2014 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2013 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2014 through 2017 . see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2013 , was a net asset of $ 180 million . in addition, no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2013 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2013 (for all years from 2014 through 2017 ) prices 70 would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $500 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2013 levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2013 , the company had eight counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset, totaling $ 187 million . to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2013 , the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, lines of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or cash, lines or credit, and/or aircraft could be posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2013 , at which such postings are triggered. at december 31, 2013 , no cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or aircraft collateral were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding fuel derivative instrument portfolio. due to the terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company's judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company's fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2013 , given the company's fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $395 million in cash collateral, post $82 million in aircraft collateral, and post $110 million in letters of credit against these positions with its current counterparties. however, the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations, and also has the ability to manage or reduce its derivative positions by entering into offsetting positions as one example. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. a portion of the fuel derivatives in the company's hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil ("wti"). the company can no longer demonstrate that derivatives based on wti crude oil prices will result in effective hedges on a prospective basis. as such, the change in fair value of all of the company's derivatives based in wti are recorded directly to earnings. in recent years, jet fuel prices have been more closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil ("brent"). the company has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on brent crude. although the company has some fuel derivatives based on the price of brent, to the extent the company holds wti-based derivatives, changes in the fair value of these positions will continue to create income statement volatility and may not provide complete protection against jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately six to twelve months into the future. 71 the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2013 , $ 31 million had been provided to one counterparty associated with interest rate derivatives based on the company's outstanding net liability derivative position with that counterparty. in addition, in connection with interest rate swaps entered into by airtran, a total of $ 1 million in cash collateral had been provided to one counterparty at december 31, 2013 , as a result of a net liability derivative position with that counterparty. the outstanding interest rate net derivative positions with all other counterparties at december 31, 2013 , were assets to the company. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch, a bbb- rating with standard &amp; poor's, and a baa3 credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2013 , all of which are considered investment grade. the company's french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2013 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. each of these notes had previously been converted to floating rates, but in 2011 and 2012 the company terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which are being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the company believes the fixed interest rates associated with each of these notes are comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2013 : 72 principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 210 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 85 6.84 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 413 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $430 million , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 3.53 years at floating rates averaging 2.36 percent for the year ended december 31, 2013 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 16.06 percent and 2.89 percent , respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2013 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.4 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.8 billion , at december 31, 2013 . see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of previous turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2013 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2013 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2013 , an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2013 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. eleven of the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2013 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company under these provisions. if the company's credit rating had been below investment grade as 73 of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $7 million in additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2013 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 74risk factors 24 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced a moderate recovery since emerging from a recession in 2009, any future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company's business has been significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices and the company's operations are subject to disruption based on the timely supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 32 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2014 . although the cost of fuel has declined in recent months, it continues to be unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases can be limited by its ability to increase fares, which can be difficult in challenging economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the 24 ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as the historical low-fare reputation of southwest, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, and due to the fact that the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments and at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and could in fact result in additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also subject to the risk that cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which could create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations, and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled southwest to historically offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company's low-cost structure has become increasingly important as a result of the company's decision to limit capacity growth in recent years in response to high fuel prices and uncertain economic conditions. while the company has in the past at times been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination of capacity control and increasing costs in recent years has contributed to an increase in the company's costs per available seat mile. the company has limited control over fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 32 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2014 , and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 33 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2014 . the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its cbas, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company's unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases. furthermore, as indicated above under business-employees, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots, mechanics, ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents, flight attendants, material specialists, and facilities maintenance technicians are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. in addition, the company anticipates that the combination of the various southwest and airtran labor contracts and frontline workforces will increase labor costs over their historical levels. as discussed above under business-regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. additionally, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party 25 vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and, in the past, has also been provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government. since the government-provided supplemental coverage from the wartime act was set to expire on september 30, 2014, the company proactively canceled its government provided war-risk insurance coverage on may 15, 2014, and effective the same date, purchased comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace. although the company was able to purchase comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance in the future could be more expensive and/or have material differences in coverage than is currently provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. some of the company's competitors have achieved substantially lower employee pay scales through bankruptcy than the company. additionally, in recent years, in response to high fuel prices and economic uncertainty, some of the company's competitors implemented additional efficiency and cost reduction measures, such as capacity cuts and headcount reductions, which have reduced the company's cost advantage. further, other competitors have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, some competitors have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. some of the company's competitors have taken advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, not only to lower employee pay scales, but also to decrease operating costs through renegotiated supply and financing agreements. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant expected cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations. in addition, technology is critical to the success of the company's strategic initiatives. in recent years the company has been committed to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives and, as discussed above under business - management information systems, the company has invested in significant technology changes to support its initiatives. for example, during 2014, the company selected amadeus' alt a reservations solution as the company's future single reservation system for both domestic and international reservations. this single reservation system is expected to be delivered over a multi-year period. the company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other things, (i) the development of new systems to improve both revenue management and network optimization capabilities, (ii) replacement of southwest's existing domestic reservation system with the comprehensive amadeus' alt a reservations solution, and (iii) a new suite of operational tools that the company expects will improve operational management. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. for example, in connection with the increase to the transportation security fee discussed above under regulation - aviation taxes, modifications and refinements to the company's systems were required in connection with both the july 2014 implementation of the transportation security fee increase and amendments to this increase 26 in december 2014. in addition, software was developed for pilot scheduling in response to the dot's and faa's flight, duty, and rest regulations that went into effect in january 2014. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and may divert management's attention from other key initiatives. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company may occasionally experience system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. this in turn could reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services. the company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives or if the company were unable to employ sufficient numbers of qualified employees to maintain its operations. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 33 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2014 . in addition, as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees' representatives. however, as indicated above under business-employees, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots; mechanics; ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents; flight attendants; material specialists; and facilities maintenance technicians, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. increasing labor costs, whether or not combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company's competitive position. the company's success also depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. competition for skilled personnel may intensify if overall industry capacity increases and/or if high levels of current personnel reach retirement age. the company may be required to increase existing levels of compensation to retain or supplement its skilled workforce. the inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key skilled personnel could adversely affect the company's operations. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, currently outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. to enable southwest to sustain the benefits associated with operating a single aircraft type, in july 2012 the company entered into an agreement with 27 delta air lines, inc. and boeing capital corp. to lease or sublease all 88 of airtran's boeing 717-200 aircraft to delta. deliveries to delta began in september 2013 at the rate of approximately three aircraft per month. as of december 31, 2014 , all 88 of airtran's boeing 717-200 aircraft had been removed from service and 52 had been delivered to delta. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. the company must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties in the ordinary course of its business. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventive and detective measures put in place by the company. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement its revenue and other initiatives. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, less than satisfactory returns on capital caused by the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing jet fuel costs led to the company's decision to limit organic growth in recent years. in addition, organic growth has become increasingly difficult, because (i) the number of opportunities for domestic expansion has declined; (ii) the company's international network is small and not yet developed; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the success of revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. the company cannot ensure the timing of implementation of certain of its initiatives or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long-term. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company's credit ratings and can also negatively affect the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company's liquidity generally. during the recession in 2009, the company's credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and an extraordinarily volatile fuel price environment. while the company's credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company's liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade could subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 28 the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the air traffic control system, which is operated by the faa, could continue to face airspace and/or airport congestion challenges in the future, which could limit the company's opportunities for growth. as discussed above under business - regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's initiatives and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees, such as the july 2014 increased transportation security fee discussed above under regulation - aviation taxes ; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards, such as the faa regulations with respect to pilot flight/duty time limitations and rest requirements discussed above under business - regulation ; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company's results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company's costs. 29 the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential faa budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business - competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and codesharing and similar activities. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations, including its international operations. as the company expands its international flight offerings, the u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) will become an increasingly important federal agency. cbp personnel and cbp-mandated procedures can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company will make significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, it will be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government or other authority. the company's expansion of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. law. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. law governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place 30 that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. airtran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against airtran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleged, among other things, that airtran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of section 2 of the sherman act, and conspired with delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. after the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; and las vegas, nevada. all of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in atlanta. a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action on february 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. in addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to airtran and to delta, the consolidated amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys' fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed plaintiffs' claims that airtran and delta had violated section 2 of the sherman act; the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines' capacity and pricing decisions. on june 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which airtran and delta have opposed. the parties have submitted briefs on class certification, and airtran filed a motion to exclude the class certification reports of plaintiffs' expert. the court has not yet ruled on the class certification motion or the related motion to exclude plaintiffs' expert. the parties engaged in extensive discovery, which was extended due to discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta, but discovery has now closed. on june 18, 2012, the parties filed a stipulation and order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that airtran and delta conspired to reduce capacity. on august 31, 2012, airtran and delta moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs' remaining claims, but discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta have delayed further briefing on summary judgment. on december 2, 2013, plaintiffs moved for discovery sanctions against delta, and the court has suspended further briefing on (i) the motion for summary judgment, (ii) the motion for class certification, and (iii) the motion to strike plaintiffs' expert on class certification, until the sanctions motion is resolved. on may 14, 2014, the court referred the sanctions dispute to a special master, the special master has issued a series of reports and recommendations, and plaintiffs and delta have submitted objections to the special master's report and recommendations. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the consolidated amended complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill in connection with the acquisition of airtran, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company's financial results. in accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the company recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet to the extent the airtran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of airtran's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. future impairment of goodwill could be recorded in the company's results of operations as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the company's control. factors which could result in an impairment, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) significantly higher prices for 31 jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to the company's operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company's financial results. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2014 , southwest operated a total of 112 aircraft under operating and capital lease. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 78 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another carrier, and thus had been removed from service as of december 31, 2014 . further information about this sublease arrangement and commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 1.9 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2015 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $19 million for 2015 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2014 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2015 through 2018 . see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2014 , was a net liability of $1.0 billion . in addition, $266 million in cash collateral deposits, $134 million in aircraft collateral, and $250 million in letters of credit were provided by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2014 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2014 (for all years from 2015 through 2018 ) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $200 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2014 levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2014 , the company had no counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty 67 with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2014 , the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or cash, letters of credit, and/or aircraft could be posted as collateral by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2014 , at which such postings are triggered. due to the terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company's judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company's fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2014 , given the company's fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $141 million in cash collateral, post an additional $319 million in aircraft collateral, and post no additional letters of credit against these positions with its current counterparties. however, as it has done in fourth quarter 2014 , and expects to continue doing in first quarter 2015 , the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations. also, the company has the ability to manage or reduce its derivative positions by entering into offsetting positions, as it did during fourth quarter 2014 , for a portion of its future hedge portfolio. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. a portion of the fuel derivatives in the company's hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil ("wti"). the company can no longer demonstrate that derivatives based on wti crude oil prices will result in effective hedges on a prospective basis. as such, the change in fair value of all of the company's derivatives based in wti are recorded directly to earnings. in recent years, jet fuel prices have been more closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil ("brent"). the company has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on brent crude. although the company has some fuel derivatives based on the price of brent, to the extent the company holds wti-based derivatives, changes in the fair value of these positions will continue to create income statement volatility and may not provide complete protection against jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2014 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in 68 place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch, a bbb rating with standard &amp; poor's, and a baa2 credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2014 , all of which are considered investment grade. the company's french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2014 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017 and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. each of these notes had previously been converted to floating rates, but in 2011 and 2012 the company terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which are being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the company believes the fixed interest rates associated with each of these notes are comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2014 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 178 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 73 6.84 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 372 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $703 million , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 3.48 years at floating rates averaging 2.22 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 12.59 percent and 4.45 percent , respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2014 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.3 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.7 billion , at december 31, 2014 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of previous turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. 69 a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2014 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2014 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2014 , an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2014 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which additional cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2014 , $266 million in cash collateral deposits were provided by the company under these provisions. if the company's credit rating had been below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $500 million in additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2014 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 70risk factors 20 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced moderate economic growth over the course of the past three years, any continuing or future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 23 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2015. although 2015 fuel prices were lower than in 2014, and dropped significantly beginning in the second half of 2014, the cost of fuel continues to be volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. 20 if higher fuel prices were to return, the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by its ability to increase fares, which can be difficult in challenging economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the company's ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, as evidenced by the extreme decline in jet fuel prices during the fourth quarter of 2014 and early 2015, and again in late 2015, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. because the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and could in fact result in additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also subject to the risk that additional cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company has limited control over fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 23 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2015, and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2015. the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company's unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases. furthermore, as indicated above under business - employees, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots; mechanics; ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents; flight attendants; material specialists; facilities maintenance technicians; flight crew training instructors; and source of support representatives, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. as discussed above under business - regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. additionally, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business - insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and, in the past, has also been provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal 21 government. since the government-provided supplemental coverage from the wartime act was set to expire on september 30, 2014, the company proactively canceled its government provided war-risk insurance coverage prior to that date and purchased comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace. although the company was able to purchase comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance in the future could be more expensive and/or have material differences in coverage than is currently provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. some of the company's competitors have achieved lower employee pay scales through bankruptcy. further, some competitors have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, like southwest, some competitors have plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. some of the company's competitors have taken advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, not only to lower employee pay scales, but also to decrease operating costs through renegotiated supply and financing agreements. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, or breach in the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations. in recent years the company has been committed to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives and, as discussed above under business - technology initiatives, the company has invested in significant technology changes. the company is in the midst of a multi-year project to completely replace its reservation system. in 2014, the company launched the amadeus alt a reservations solution to support the company's international service. the company has since begun implementing amadeus' alt a reservations solution as the company's future single reservation system for both domestic and international reservations. this single reservation system is expected to be implemented in 2017. the company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other things, (i) the continued development of systems to improve both revenue management and network optimization capabilities, (ii) the aforementioned replacement of southwest's existing domestic reservation system with the comprehensive amadeus' alt a reservations solution, and (iii) tools to improve operational management. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and may divert management's attention from other matters. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company may occasionally experience system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. this in turn could reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services. the company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from 22 processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives or if the company were unable to employ sufficient numbers of qualified employees to maintain its operations. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2015. in addition, as of december 31, 2015, approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees' representatives. however, as indicated above under business - employees, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots; mechanics; ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents; flight attendants; material specialists; facilities maintenance technicians; flight crew training instructors; and source of support representatives, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could continue to put pressure on the company's labor costs. increasing labor costs could negatively impact the company's competitive position. the company's success also depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. competition for skilled personnel may intensify if overall industry capacity increases and/or if high levels of current personnel reach retirement age. the company may be required to increase existing levels of compensation to retain or supplement its skilled workforce. the inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key skilled personnel could adversely affect the company's operations. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to defend against this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of its business, the company provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise 23 of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the company. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to effectively execute its strategic plans. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline. however, organic growth remains challenging because (i) the opportunities for domestic expansion could be limited; (ii) the company's international network is small and not yet developed; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies to help offset certain increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective execution of the company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties with respect to its strategic plans. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company's credit ratings and can also negatively affect the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company's liquidity generally. while the company's credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit, capital, and energy markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company's liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade could subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the air traffic control system, which is operated by the faa, could continue to face airspace and/or airport congestion challenges in the future, which could limit the company's opportunities for growth. as discussed above under business - regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; 24 limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company's results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company's costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential faa budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business - competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities. 25 the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations, including its international operations. as the company expands its international flight offerings, the u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) will become an increasingly important federal agency. cbp personnel and cbp-mandated procedures can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and/or approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. the company's expansion of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. laws. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. laws governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. the company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleged, among other things, that airtran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of section 2 of the sherman act, and conspired with delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. after the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; and las vegas, nevada. all of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in atlanta. a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action on february 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. in addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to airtran and to delta, the consolidated amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys' fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed plaintiffs' claims that airtran and delta had violated section 2 of the sherman act; the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines' capacity and pricing decisions. on june 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which airtran and delta have opposed. the parties have submitted briefs on class certification, and the parties have filed motions to exclude the class certification opinions of each other's expert. the parties engaged in extensive discovery, and discovery has now closed. on june 18, 2012, the parties filed a stipulation and order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that airtran and delta conspired to reduce capacity. 26 on august 31, 2012, airtran and delta moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs' remaining claims, but discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta delayed further briefing on summary judgment. on august 5, 2015, the court entered an order granting class certification, which was vacated on august 17, 2015, to permit further briefing on class certification and airtran's motion to exclude plaintiffs' expert. thereafter, the parties filed motions to exclude the opinions of the other parties' experts. on january 8, 2016, the parties completed briefing on defendants' motions for summary judgment, plaintiffs' motion for class certification, and the motions to exclude the opinions of experts, and those motions have been submitted to the court for decision. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the consolidated amended complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. also, on june 30, 2015, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) issued a civil investigative demand ( cid ) to the company. the cid seeks information and documents about the company's capacity from january 2010 to the present including public statements and communications with third parties about capacity. in june 2015, the company also received a letter from the connecticut attorney general requesting information about capacity; and on august 21, 2015, the attorney general of the state of ohio issued an investigative demand seeking information and documents about the company's capacity from december 2013 to the present. the company is cooperating fully with the doj cid and these two state inquiries. further, on july 1, 2015, a complaint was filed in the united states district court for the southern district of new york on behalf of putative classes of consumers alleging collusion among the company, american airlines, delta air lines, and united airlines to limit capacity and maintain higher fares in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. since then, a number of similar class action complaints have been filed in the united states district courts for the central district of california, the northern district of california, the district of columbia, the middle district of florida, the southern district of florida, the northern district of georgia, the northern district of illinois, the southern district of indiana, the eastern district of louisiana, the district of minnesota, the district of new jersey, the eastern district of new york, the southern district of new york, the middle district of north carolina, the district of oklahoma, the eastern district of pennsylvania, the northern district of texas, the district of vermont, and the eastern district of wisconsin. the complaints seek treble damages for periods that vary among the complaints, costs, attorneys' fees, and injunctive relief. on october 13, 2015, the judicial panel on multi-district litigation centralized the cases to the united states district court in the district of columbia. the court has not yet entered a scheduling order establishing a date for defendants to respond to the complaints. while the company intends to vigorously defend these civil cases, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. in addition, on july 8, 2015, the company was named as a defendant in putative class action filed in british columbia, canada alleging that the company, air canada, american airlines, delta air lines and united airlines colluded to restrict capacity and maintain higher fares for canadian citizens traveling in the united states and for travel between the united states and canada. similar lawsuits were filed in ontario, quebec and saskatchewan. the time for the company to respond to the complaints has not yet expired. while the company intends to vigorously defend these civil cases, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in these or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill in connection with the acquisition of airtran, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company's financial results. the company recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet as a result of its acquisition of airtran. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. future impairment of goodwill could be recorded in the company's results of operations as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the company's control. factors which could result in an impairment, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) significantly higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or 27 lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to the company's operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company's financial results. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2015 , southwest operated a total of 123 aircraft under operating and capital lease. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 78 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another carrier. further information about this sublease arrangement is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2016 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $20 million for 2016 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2015 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2016 through 2018 . see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2015 , was a net liability of $1.5 billion . in addition, $835 million in cash collateral deposits and $250 million in aircraft collateral were provided by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2015 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2015 (for all years from 2016 through 2018 ) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $192 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2015 , levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2015 , the company had three counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2015 , the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or cash, letters of credit, and/or aircraft could be posted as collateral by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2015 , at which such postings are triggered. due to the terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company's judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company's fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2015 , given the company's fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $436 million in collateral which could be met by posting aircraft and/or letters of credit with its current counterparties. the company has the option of providing cash, letters of credit, and/or pledging aircraft as collateral. at december 31, 2015 , the company had $1.4 billion in aircraft available to be posted as collateral. however, as it did in 2015 , and expects to continue doing in first quarter 2016 , the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in 63 its operations. also, the company has the ability to manage or reduce its derivative positions by entering into offsetting positions, as it did during 2015 , for a portion of its future hedge portfolio. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. a portion of the fuel derivatives in the company's hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil ("wti"). in recent years, jet fuel prices have been more closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil ("brent"). the company has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on brent crude. although the company has some fuel derivatives based on the price of brent, to the extent the company holds wti-based derivatives, changes in the fair value of these positions will continue to create income statement volatility and may not provide complete protection against jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2015 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb + rating with fitch, a bbb rating with standard &amp; poor's, and a baa1 credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2015 , all of which are considered investment grade. the company's french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2015 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 5.75% senior unsecured notes 2016, its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. each of these notes had at one point been converted to floating rates, but the company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which are being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it 64 would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2015 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 143 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 36 4.84 % 7/1/2019 4 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 329 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $859 million , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 4.36 years at floating rates averaging 1.47 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 13.42 percent and 4.97 percent , respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2015 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.6 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.5 billion at december 31, 2015 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of previous turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2015 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2015 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2015 , an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2015 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which additional cash collateral could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2015 , $835 million in cash collateral deposits were 65 provided by the company under these provisions. if the company's credit rating had been below investment grade as of that date, the company would not have been required to post additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties because it had additional room available under its existing aircraft collateral facilities. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover, and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2015 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 66risk factors 20 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions, when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced moderate economic growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2016. although 2016 fuel prices were lower than in 2015, as discussed above under "business - cost structure," the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. 20 the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, as evidenced by the extreme decline in jet fuel prices in late 2015, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. because the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and could in fact result in hedging losses, and the company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also subject to the risk that additional cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share; however fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the company's ability to control its costs. furthermore, the company has limited control over many of these costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2016, and the company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2016. the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company's unionized workforce, which makes up approximately 83% of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases. additionally, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots; flight attendants; ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents; aircraft appearance technicians; and flight crew training instructors, have ratified new collective-bargaining agreements during 2016, which have put pressure on the company's low-cost structure. furthermore, as indicated above under business - employees, other southwest unionized employees, including its mechanics; material specialists; and facilities maintenance technicians, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the company's low-cost structure. as discussed above under business - regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the company's control. additionally, the company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. when this occurs, airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total 21 flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business - insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. although the company has been able to purchase war-risk (terrorism) insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. some so called ultra low-cost carriers have surpassed the company's cost advantage while continuing to add aircraft, expand their networks, and add competition to the company's routes. when competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks, they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, like southwest, some competitors have plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs. furthermore, some of the company's competitors have taken advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, not only to lower employee pay scales, but also to decrease operating costs through renegotiated supply and financing agreements. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, or breach in the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations, and the company continues to implement technology initiatives to support its ongoing operations and strategies. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the company's results of operations. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and may divert management's attention from other matters. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company has occasionally experienced system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which can prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services, and these could continue to occur in the future. these system interruptions and delays can reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services as well as increase the company's costs. the company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. 22 the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2016. in addition, as of december 31, 2016, approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that have, and continue to, impact the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to defend against this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of its business, the company provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the company. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to effectively execute its strategic plans. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline. however, organic growth remains challenging because (i) the opportunities for domestic expansion are limited; (ii) the company's international network is relatively small and international expansion presents unique challenges; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies to help offset 23 certain increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective execution of the company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties with respect to its strategic plans. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks or other hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based and supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies. the faa's protracted transition to a satellite-based air traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the precision of global positioning system-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, more delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. as discussed above under business - regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the 2016 reallocation of slots at john wayne airport in orange county, california, which caused the company to reduce service at that airport; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; and 24 the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company's results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company's costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential faa budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business - competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded international operations. as the company expands its international flight offerings, the u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) will become an increasingly important federal agency. cbp personnel and cbp-mandated procedures can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and/or approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. the company's expansion of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant 25 respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. laws. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. laws governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. the company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. as discussed below under legal proceedings, the company is subject to pending litigation. regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in these or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2016 , southwest operated a total of 134 aircraft under operating and capital lease. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 78 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another carrier. further information about this sublease arrangement is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2017 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $20 million for 2017 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2016 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2017 through 2019 . see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2016 , was a net liability of $326 million . in addition, $301 million in cash collateral deposits were provided by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2016 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2016 (for all years from 2017 through 2019 ) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $266 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2016 , levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts that are an asset to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2016 , the company had five counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and periodically reviews counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and monitors the market position of the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2016 , the company had agreements with all of its active counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the c ompany also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted as collateral whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2016 , at which such postings are triggered. due to the terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company's judgment, it does not have significant additional cash collateral exposure. given its investment grade credit rating, the company can meet any additional significant collateral calls by posting aircraft and/or letters of credit. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company's fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2016 , given the company's current fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $256 million in collateral. the company would have the option of providing cash, letters of credit, and/or pledging aircraft in order to meet this collateral requirement. at december 31, 2016 , the company had $1.6 billion in aircraft available to be posted as collateral. in addition, the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. in recent years, jet fuel prices have been closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil. the company has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on brent crude oil. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2016 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb + rating with fitch, a bbb rating with standard &amp; poor's, and a baa1 credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2016 , all of which are considered investment grade. the company's french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. although there is interest rate 60 risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2016 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, its $300 million 3.00% senior unsecured notes due 2026, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. excluding the notes due 2026, these notes had at one point been converted to floating rates, but the company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which are being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2016 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 106 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 28 4.84 % 7/1/2019 4 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 284 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $1.1 billion , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 4.69 years at floating rates averaging 1.97 percent for the year ended december 31, 2016 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 12.44 percent and 5.59 percent , respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2016 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.7 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.6 billion at december 31, 2016 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2016 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2016 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2016 , an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under 61 its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2016 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which additional cash collateral could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2016 , $301 million in cash collateral deposits were provided by the company under these provisions. if the company's credit rating had been below investment grade as of that date, the company would not have been required to post additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties because it had room available under its existing aircraft collateral facilities. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover, and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, but the air travel generally occurs after that time; therefore, the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2016 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 62risk factors 21 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions, when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced modest economic growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2017. although 2017 fuel prices were moderately higher than 2016 fuel prices, as discussed above under "business - cost structure," the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity due to weather, natural disasters, or other factors; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of 21 the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. because the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and could in fact result in hedging losses, and the company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also subject to the risk that cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. also, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on future changes in applicable standards for hedge accounting. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, grow market share, and protect profits. the company's low-cost position has become even more significant with the increased presence of ulccs and changes to the legacy fare offerings discussed above; however, it has become increasingly difficult for the company to improve upon its industry cost position. for example, labor and fuel costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the company's ability to control its costs. furthermore, the company has limited control over many of these costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2017, and the company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2017. the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," the company's unionized workforce, which makes up approximately 83 percent of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases. additionally, the majority of southwest's unionized employees, including its pilots; flight attendants; ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents; aircraft appearance technicians; and flight crew training instructors, ratified new collective-bargaining agreements during 2016, which have put pressure on the company's low-cost structure. furthermore, as indicated above under "business - employees," other southwest unionized employees, including its mechanics and material specialists, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the company's low-cost structure. as discussed above under "business - regulation," the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the company's control. additionally, the company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. when this occurs, airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights, 22 which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, in particular with respect to its fleet and technology initiatives and performance, and the company's low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under "business - insurance," the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. although the company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, and professional insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism. further, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. ulccs, which have increased capacity in the company's markets, have surpassed the company's cost advantage. when competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks, they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, like southwest, some competitors have added a significant number of new and different aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations and support its strategic objectives. implementation and integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. implementation and integration require a balancing between the introduction of new capabilities and the managing of existing systems, and present the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the company's results of operations. the company is also reliant upon the performance of its third party vendors for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives and for maintaining adequate information security measures. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and can divert management's attention from other matters. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary or appropriately balance the introduction of new capabilities with the management of existing systems. the company has experienced system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which can prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services, and these could continue to occur in the future. these system interruptions and delays can reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the company's costs. the company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. 23 the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2017. in addition, as of december 31, 2017, approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that have, and continue to, impact the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers, in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment, or in the event the pricing and operational attributes of the company's equipment become less competitive. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company was unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing was unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, continue to outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. the company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its equipment were to become less competitive. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to defend against this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of its business, the company also provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the security of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the company. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to effectively execute its strategic plans. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline. however, organic growth remains challenging because (i) the opportunities for domestic expansion are limited; (ii) the company's international network is relatively small 24 and international expansion presents unique challenges; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies to help offset certain increasing costs. the timely and effective execution of the company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties with respect to its strategic plans. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks or other crimes and hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based and supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies. the faa's protracted transition to a satellite-based air traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the precision of global positioning system-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, increased delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. as discussed above under "business - regulation," airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the 2016 and 2017 reallocation of slots at john wayne airport in orange county, california, which caused the company to reduce service at that airport; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; and 25 the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company's results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company's costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters such as the hurricanes and earthquakes in third quarter 2017, which resulted in approximately $100 million in reduced revenues for the company as a result of approximately 5,000 canceled flights; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential faa budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; outbreaks of disease; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under "business - competition," the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, operational reliability, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded international operations and/or extended operations ("etops"). with the expansion of the company's international flight offerings, the u.s. customs and border protection ("cbp") has become an increasingly important federal agency. cbp personnel and cbp-mandated procedures can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and/or approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. 26 the company's expansion of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. laws. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. laws governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. as discussed above under regulation operational, safety, and health regulation, in january 2018, the company submitted a formal application to the faa for authorization to conduct etops using boeing 737-800 aircraft, in connection with the company's plans to begin service to hawaii. if the company receives faa authorization and commences etops, the company will be subject to additional, ongoing, etops-specific regulatory and procedural requirements, which could add operational and compliance risks to the company's business, including costs associated therewith. the company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. as discussed below under "legal proceedings," the company and its airtran subsidiary are subject to pending litigation. regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should the company or airtran fail to prevail in these or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2017 , the company operated a total of 122 aircraft under operating and capital lease. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 78 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another carrier. in addition, the company has 15 remaining classic aircraft under operating leases which were grounded in september 2017. further information about these leases is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy 66 markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 2.1 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2018 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $21 million for 2018 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2017 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for future periods. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2017 , was a net asset of $248 million . in addition, $15 million in cash collateral deposits were held by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2017 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2017 , prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $214 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2017 , levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts that are an asset position to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2017 , the company had eight counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and periodically reviews counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and monitors the market position of the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2017 , the company had agreements with all of its active counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the c ompany also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted as collateral whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts held as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2017 , at which such postings are triggered. due to the company's investment grade credit rating, terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties, and the types of derivatives held as of december 31, 2017 , in the company's judgment, it does not have cash collateral exposure. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. the company has found that financial derivative instruments in commodities, such as west texas intermediate crude oil, brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. 67 the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2017 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a " bbb +" rating with fitch, a " bbb +" rating with standard &amp; poor's, and an " a3 " credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2017 , all of which are considered "investment grade." the company's french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2017 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 2.75% senior unsecured notes due 2022, its $300 million 3.00% senior unsecured notes due 2026, its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027, and its $300 million 3.45% senior unsecured notes due 2027. the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027 had at one point been converted to a floating rate, but the company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to it. the effect of this termination was that the interest associated with this debt prospectively reverted back to its original fixed rate. as a result of the gain realized on this transaction, which is being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2017 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 66 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 19 4.84 % 7/1/2019 4 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 237 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $1.0 billion , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 3.04 years at floating rates averaging 2.42 percent for the year ended december 31, 2017 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 13 percent and 5 percent , respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2017 . 68 the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.5 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.8 billion at december 31, 2017 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2017 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2017 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2017 , an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2017 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company was in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover, and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, but the air travel generally occurs after that time; therefore, the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. 69 as of december 31, 2017 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 70risk factors 21 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions, when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced modest growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. further, because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic could adversely affect the company's results of operations. the company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 25 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2018. as discussed above under "business - cost structure," the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity due to weather, natural disasters, or other factors; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. 21 the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. because the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and in some cases could in fact result in hedging losses, and the company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also subject to the risk that cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. also, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on changes in applicable standards for hedge accounting. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, grow market share, and protect profits. the company's low-cost position has become even more significant with the increased presence of ulccs and changes to the fare offerings of other carriers, as discussed above; however, it has become increasingly difficult for the company to improve upon its industry cost position. for example, labor and fuel costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the company's ability to control its costs. furthermore, the company has limited control over many of these costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 25 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2018, and the company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2018. the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," the company's unionized workforce, which makes up approximately 83 percent of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases, which has put pressure on the company's labor costs. additionally, as indicated above under "business - employees," the majority of southwest's unionized employee work groups, including its flight attendants; customer service agents, customer representatives, and source of support representatives; material specialists; mechanics; dispatchers; flight simulator technicians; and meteorologists, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements or have labor agreements that become amendable in 2019, which could result in additional pressure on the company's low-cost structure. as discussed above under "business - regulation," the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the company's control. additionally, the company cannot control decisions by other 22 airlines to reduce their capacity. when this occurs, certain fixed airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, in particular with respect to its fleet and technology initiatives and performance, and the company's low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under "business - insurance," the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. although the company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, and professional insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism. further, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss. with respect to any insurance claims, policy coverages and claims are subject to acceptance by the many insurers involved and may require arbitration and/or mediation to effectively settle the claims over prolonged periods of time. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company, which could harm its reputation and business. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. ulccs, which have increased capacity in the company's markets, have surpassed the company's cost advantage. when competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks, they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, like southwest, some competitors have added a significant number of new and different aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations and support its strategic objectives. implementation and integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. implementation and integration require a balancing between the introduction of new capabilities and the managing of existing systems, and present the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the company's results of operations. the company is also reliant upon the performance of its third party vendors for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives and for maintaining adequate information security measures. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and can divert management's attention from other matters. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary or appropriately balance the introduction of new capabilities with the management of existing systems. the company has experienced system interruptions and delays that make its websites and operational systems unavailable or slow to respond, which can prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services, and these could occur again in the future. these system interruptions and delays can reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the company's costs. the company's computer and communications systems and functions could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these 23 events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 41 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2018. in addition, as of december 31, 2018, approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that have impacted, and continue to impact, the company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected (i) if it were unable to obtain timely or sufficient delivery of aircraft or other equipment from boeing or other suppliers or adequate maintenance or other support from any of these suppliers, (ii) in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the company's aircraft or equipment, or (iii) in the event the pricing and operational attributes of the company's aircraft or equipment become less competitive. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts or other services. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or if boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely or adequate deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company's fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, continue to outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. the company is also dependent on sole or limited suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and services and would, therefore, also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, inadequate support for, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. the company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its equipment were to become less competitive. developing and expanding data security and privacy requirements could increase the company's operating costs, and any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer, employee, and business-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company's operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the continually evolving risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent or defend against these risks, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, personal or confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of its business, the company also provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the security of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the company. 24 in addition, in response to these types of threats, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security in the united states and elsewhere. as a result, the company must address a growing and fast-evolving set of legal requirements in this area. this regulatory environment is increasingly challenging and may present material obligations and risks to the company's business, including significantly expanded compliance burdens, costs, and enforcement risks. the company has a dedicated cyber security team and program that focuses on current and emerging data security and data privacy matters. the company continues to assess and invest in the growing needs of the cyber security team through the allocation of skilled personnel, ongoing training, and support of the adoption and implementation of technologies coupled with cyber security risk management frameworks. the company carries a cyber-security insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated with both security breaches from malicious parties and from certain system failures. however, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to effectively execute its strategic plans. the company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies and other strategic plans and initiatives to help offset certain increasing costs. the timely and effective execution of the company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company's dependence on third parties with respect to the execution of its strategic plans. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks or other crimes and hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based and supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies. the faa's protracted transition to a satellite-based air traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the precision of global positioning system-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, increased delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. as discussed above under "business - regulation," airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: 25 increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the 2016 and 2017 reallocation of slots at john wayne airport in orange county, california, which caused the company to reduce service at that airport; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters such as the weather-related disruptions in third quarter 2018, which resulted in approximately 2,200 canceled flights; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, for example, as a result of inadequate faa staffing levels due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or perceived delays at various airports resulting from government shutdowns (including, for example, longer wait-times at tsa checkpoints due to inadequate tsa staffing levels); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; delays in deliveries of new aircraft (including, without limitation, due to the closure of the faa's aircraft registry during government shutdowns); outbreaks of disease; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under "business - competition," the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's 26 revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, loyalty programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, operational reliability, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded international operations and/or extended operations ("etops"). the company's international flight offerings are subject to u.s. customs and border protection ("cbp") mandated procedures, which can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and/or approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. the company's operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions may subject the company to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than, or in addition to, u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. laws. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. laws governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. in january 2018, the company submitted a formal application to the faa for authorization to conduct etops using boeing 737-800 aircraft, in connection with the company's plans to begin service to hawaii. due to the government shutdown in late 2018 and early 2019, the company's etops application process was delayed subject to the government reopening and the faa's related ability to resume normal certification activities. if the company receives faa authorization and commences etops, the company will be subject to additional, ongoing, etops-specific regulatory and procedural requirements, which could add operational and compliance risks to the company's business, including costs associated therewith. further, as discussed above under "business - competition," the longer stage length of the company's expected hawaiian routes, as compared with the company's average stage length of its other routes, could put pressure on the company's revenues per available seat mile. the company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. as discussed below under "legal proceedings," the company is subject to pending litigation. regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the company may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should the company fail to prevail in these or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the company's reputation and brand could be harmed if it were to experience significant negative publicity, including through social media. 27 the company operates in a public-facing industry with significant exposure to social media. negative publicity, whether or not justified, can spread rapidly through social media. to the extent that the company is unable to respond timely and appropriately to negative publicity, the company's reputation and brand can be harmed. damage to the company's overall reputation and brand could have a negative impact on its financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2018 , the company operated a total of 123 aircraft under operating and capital lease. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 75 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another carrier. further information about these leases is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 2.2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2019 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $22 million for 2019 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2018 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for future periods. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2018 , was an asset of $138 million . no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2018 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2018 , prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $114 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2018 , levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts that are in an asset position to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2018 , the company had eight counterparties in which the derivatives held were an asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and periodically reviews counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and monitors the market position of the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2018 , the company had agreements with all of its active counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the 63 c ompany also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted as collateral whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2018 , at which such postings are triggered. due to the company's investment grade credit rating, terms of the company's current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties, and the types of derivatives held as of december 31, 2018 , in the company's judgment, it does not have cash collateral exposure. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. the company has found that financial derivative instruments in commodities, such as west texas intermediate crude oil, brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2018 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a " bbb +" rating with fitch, a " bbb +" rating with standard &amp; poor's, and an " a3 " credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2018 , all of which are considered "investment grade." as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2018 , excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 2.75% senior unsecured notes due 2022, its $300 million 3.00% senior unsecured notes due 2026, its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027, and its $300 million 3.45% senior unsecured notes due 2027. the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027 had at one point been converted to a floating rate, but the company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to it. the effect of this termination was that the interest associated with this debt prospectively reverted back to its original fixed rate. as a result of the gain realized on this transaction, which is being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had 64 the notes remained at floating rates. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2018 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 23 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 10 4.84 % 7/1/2019 4 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 187 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $994 million , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 2.12 years at floating rates averaging 3.48 percent for the year ended december 31, 2018 . in total, the company's fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 11 percent and 5 percent , respectively, of its consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2018 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.9 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.8 billion at december 31, 2018 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2018 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2018 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held from or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2018 , an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2018 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company was in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 65 the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover, and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, but the air travel generally occurs after that time; therefore, the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2018 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 66risk factors 20 risk factors the company is currently dependent on boeing as the sole manufacturer of the company's aircraft. further prolonged grounding by the faa of the boeing 737 max aircraft could materially and adversely affect the company's business plans, strategies, and results of operations. the boeing 737 max aircraft are crucial to the company's growth plans and fleet modernization initiatives. on march 13, 2019, the faa issued an emergency order for all u.s. airlines to ground the max aircraft, including the 34 max aircraft in the company's fleet. the max aircraft remains grounded and, based on continued uncertainty around the timing of the max return to service, the company has removed the max from its flight schedule through june 6, 2020, and will likely further extend max-related flight schedule adjustments. further, max deliveries have remained suspended following the max groundings, and boeing is not currently manufacturing new max aircraft. the company does not know whether, on what conditions, or when the max groundings will end. regulatory approval of max return to service is subject to boeing's ongoing work with the faa, who will determine the timing of max return to service. the max groundings adversely affected operating results for the year ended december 31, 2019, and could have a material, adverse effect on the company's operating results in future periods. a continued prolonged extension or permanent grounding of the max aircraft would require additional flight schedule adjustments and result in further delays in aircraft deliveries, as well as lower operating revenues, operating income, and net income due to a variety of factors, including, among others, (i) lost revenue due to flight cancellations and disruptions as a result of a smaller operating aircraft fleet, (ii) the lack of ability to make corresponding reductions in expenses because of the fixed nature of many expenses, and (iii) possible negative effects on customer confidence and airline choice. boeing no longer manufactures versions of the 737 other than the 737 max family of aircraft. if the 737 max aircraft were to remain unavailable for the company's flight operations, the company's growth would be restricted unless and until it could procure and operate other types of aircraft from boeing or another manufacturer, seller, or lessor, and the company's operations would be materially adversely affected. in particular, if the company's growth were to be dependent upon the introduction of a new aircraft make and model to the company's fleet, the company would need to, among other things, (i) develop and implement new maintenance, operating, and training programs, (ii) secure extensive regulatory approvals, and (iii) implement new technologies. the requirements associated with operating a new aircraft make and model could take an extended period of time to fulfill and would likely impose substantial costs on the company. a shift away from a single fleet type could also add complexity to the company's operations, present operational and compliance risks, and materially increase the company's costs. any of these events would have a 20 material, adverse effect on the company's business, operating results, and financial condition. the company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its aircraft were to become less competitive. further, even upon a rescission of the faa order to ground the max aircraft, the company will continue to be reliant on boeing to provide necessary resources and support to return the max to service. boeing has recommended that pilots receive special flight simulator training before operating the max aircraft, although the faa is ultimately responsible for establishing the training requirements for operating the max. special simulator training would further delay the max return to service. in addition, following the max return to service, the company could face significant operational challenges in efficiently taking delivery of a large number of max aircraft from boeing and reintroducing the max aircraft into the company's network in a controlled and steady manner. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. historically, unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions, when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. although the u.s. economy has experienced modest growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or future u.s. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company's results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. further, because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic could adversely affect the company's results of operations. the company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses for 2019. as discussed above under "business - cost structure," the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the company's control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political, environmental, and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) disruptions in domestic refining or pipeline capacity due to weather, natural disasters, or other factors; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in u.s. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. the company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. the company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. however, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. because the company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and in some cases could in fact result in hedging losses, and the company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the company's earnings. the company is also 21 subject to the risk that cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the company's financial position and liquidity. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. adjustments in the company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, could continue to affect the company's results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on changes in applicable standards for hedge accounting. the company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and in note 1 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. a disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the company to provide service to a particular airport. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company's ability to control its costs. the company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, grow market share, and protect profits. the company's low-cost position has become even more significant with the increased presence of ulccs and changes to the fare offerings of other carriers, as discussed above; however, it has become increasingly difficult for the company to improve upon its industry cost position. for example, labor and fuel costs, as well as other costs such as airport costs and regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the company's ability to control its costs. furthermore, the company has limited control over many of these costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 22 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2019, and the company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the third risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 43 percent of the company's operating expenses during 2019. the company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company's low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," the company's unionized workforce, which makes up approximately 83 percent of its employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases, which has put pressure on the company's labor costs. additionally, as indicated above under "business - employees," the majority of southwest's unionized employee work groups, including its pilots; flight attendants; customer service agents, customer representatives, and source of support representatives; aircraft appearance technicians; dispatchers; flight crew training instructors; and meteorologists, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements or have labor agreements that become amendable in 2020, which could result in additional pressure on the company's low-cost structure. as discussed above under "business - regulation," the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the company's control. additionally, because of airport infrastructure updates and other factors, the company has experienced increased space rental rates at various airports in its network. further, the company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. when this occurs, certain fixed airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and the company's low-cost advantage is dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. disruptions to capital markets, shortages of skilled personnel, geopolitical developments, and/or adverse economic conditions could subject certain of the company's third party vendors and service providers to significant financial pressures which could lead to performance problems, ceased operations, or bankruptcies among these third party vendors and 22 service providers. if a third party vendor or service provider is unable to fulfill its commitments to the company, the company may be unable to replace that third party vendor or service provider in a short period of time, or at competitive terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. as discussed above under "business - insurance," the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. although the company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, and professional insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism. further, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss. with respect to any insurance claims, policy coverages and claims are subject to acceptance by the many insurers involved and may require arbitration and/or mediation to effectively settle the claims over prolonged periods of time. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the company, which could harm its reputation and business. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. ulccs, which have increased capacity in the company's markets, have surpassed the company's cost advantage. when competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks, they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, like southwest, some competitors have added a significant number of new and different aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs. further, some of the company's competitors have launched multi-year cost savings efforts to meet specific financial and growth targets. common efforts include fleet transformation to gain fuel efficiencies, fleet simplification, and increasing the number of seats per trip through seat retrofits and the use of larger aircraft. as discussed below under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," the company experienced significant unit cost pressure in 2019 following the max groundings. historically, except for changes in the price of fuel, changes in operating expenses for airlines have been largely driven by changes in capacity. however, the company's operating expenses are largely fixed once flight schedules are published; and the company experienced lower than expected capacity during 2019 due to the max groundings. throughout the duration of the max groundings, the company has made schedule adjustments and canceled flights based on guidance from boeing estimating the timing of max return to service. further changes to guidance relating to the expected duration of the max groundings could require the company to make additional schedule adjustments and drive additional unit cost pressure and negatively affect fuel efficiency. the company offers no assurances that current estimations and timelines related to the max groundings are correct. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of the company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations and support its strategic objectives. these technologies and systems include, among others, the company's website and reservation system, flight dispatch and tracking systems, flight simulators, check-in kiosks, maintenance record keeping management systems, telecommunications systems, flight planning and scheduling systems, crew scheduling systems, and financial planning, management, and accounting systems. the performance, reliability, and security of the company's technology infrastructure and supporting systems are critical to the company's operations and initiatives. implementation and integration of complex systems and technology present significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. implementation and integration require a balancing between the introduction of new capabilities and the managing of existing systems, and present the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the company's results of operations. 23 the company is also reliant upon the performance of its third party vendors for timely and effective implementation and support of many of its technology initiatives and for maintaining adequate information security measures. if any of the company's significant technologies or automated systems were to cease functioning, or if its third party vendor service providers were to fail to adequately and timely provide technical support, system maintenance, or software upgrades for any of the company's existing systems, the company could experience service interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, which could harm its operations, and result in financial losses and reputational damage. in the ordinary course of business, the company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements. in addition, the company's systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. modifications and refinements to the company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and can divert management's attention from other matters. in addition, the company's operations could be adversely affected, or the company could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary or appropriately balance the introduction of new capabilities with the management of existing systems. the company has experienced system interruptions and delays that have made its websites and operational systems unavailable or slow to respond, which has prevented the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. any future system interruptions or delays could reduce the company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the company's costs. the company's technologies and systems and functions could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events beyond its control such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company's business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the company could be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees' representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 43 percent of the company's operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2019. in addition, as of december 31, 2019, approximately 83 percent of the company's employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related matters (some of which relate to negotiated items) that have impacted, and continue to impact, the company's results of operations include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits. the company is currently dependent on a single engine supplier, as well as single suppliers of certain other aircraft parts and equipment; therefore, the company could be materially adversely affected (i) if it were unable to obtain timely or sufficient delivery of aircraft parts or equipment from boeing or other suppliers or adequate maintenance or other support from any of these suppliers, or (ii) in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the company's aircraft parts or equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for many of its aircraft parts. the company is also dependent on sole or limited suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts, equipment, and services. if boeing, or other suppliers, were unable or unwilling to timely provide adequate products or support for their products, or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with engines or other parts, the company's operations could be materially adversely affected. the company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its aircraft equipment were to become less competitive. developing and expanding data security and privacy requirements could increase the company's operating costs, and any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer, employee, and business-related information could result in damage to the company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers and employees in order to run its business, and the company's operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the continually evolving risk of 24 intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent or defend against these risks, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, personal or confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of its business, the company also provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the security of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company's security systems could adversely affect the company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the company. in addition, in response to these types of threats, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security in the united states and elsewhere. as a result, the company must monitor a growing and fast-evolving set of legal requirements in this area. this regulatory environment is increasingly challenging and may present material obligations and risks to the company's business, including significantly expanded compliance burdens, costs, and enforcement risks. the company has a dedicated cyber-security team and program that focuses on current and emerging data security matters. the company continues to assess and invest in the growing needs of the cyber-security team through the allocation of skilled personnel, ongoing training, and support of the adoption and implementation of technologies coupled with cyber-security risk management frameworks. the company carries a cyber-security insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated with both security breaches from malicious parties and from certain system failures. however, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the company's risk of loss. the company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to effectively execute its strategic plans. the company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies and other strategic plans and initiatives to grow and to help offset increasing costs. the timely and effective execution of the company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) as discussed further above, the company's dependence on third parties with respect to the execution of its strategic plans. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company's operations. terrorist attacks or other crimes and hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety and security measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. the company is subject to extensive faa regulation, which may materially and adversely affect the company's business plans, strategies, and results of operations. the faa promulgates and enforces regulations affecting the airline industry, and exercises extensive regulatory oversight of the company's operations. the faa from time to time also issues orders or directives relating to the 25 maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. faa orders and directives can be issued with little or no notice, and in certain instances, require the temporary grounding of aircraft. recently, the company reviewed a draft report from the office of inspector general (oig) for the dot regarding its audit of the faa's oversight of the company. the company strongly disagrees with many of the draft statements and conclusions in the report and is not aware of any action the faa might take against the company arising from the oig's audit of the faa; however, the issuance of new faa regulations, regulatory amendments, or orders or directives could result in flight schedule adjustments and groundings or delays in aircraft deliveries, as well as lower operating revenues, operating income, and net income due to a variety of factors, including, among others, (i) lost revenue due to flight cancellations and disruptions as a result of a smaller operating aircraft fleet, (ii) the lack of ability to make corresponding reductions in expenses because of the fixed nature of many expenses, and (iii) possible negative effects on customer confidence and airline choice. government regulation affecting the company is discussed in more detail in the below risk factor and above under business - regulation. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company's operating costs or otherwise limit the company's ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. in order to operate efficiently, as well as to add service in current and new markets, the company must be able to maintain and/or obtain space and facilities at desirable airports with adequate infrastructure. as airports become more congested, space, facility, and infrastructure constraints may prevent the company from maintaining existing service and/or implementing new service in a commercially viable manner. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are dependent on the faa controlling that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based, supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies, and heavily dependent on skilled personnel. the faa's protracted transition to a satellite-based air traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the precision of gps-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, increased delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. the current air traffic control system faces challenges in supporting the growing demand for u.s. air travel and may not be able to effectively keep pace with future air traffic growth. the continuation of these air traffic control constraints or the faa's inability to meet staffing needs on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the company's operations. as discussed above under "business - regulation," airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the annual reallocation of capacity at john wayne airport in orange county, california, which has caused the company to reduce service at that airport in each of the last several years; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports (a "slot" is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the faa, to operate a takeoff or landing at a specific time at certain airports); actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes or fees; 26 changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit the company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company's ability to promote the company's business or fares; airspace closures or restrictions; grounding of commercial air traffic by the faa; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company's business strategies and results of operations. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters such as the weather-related disruptions in fourth quarter 2019, which resulted in approximately 2,100 canceled flights; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, for example, as a result of inadequate faa staffing levels due to government shutdowns or sequestration); actual or perceived delays at various airports resulting from government shutdowns (including, for example, longer wait-times at tsa checkpoints due to inadequate tsa staffing levels); changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; delays in deliveries of new aircraft (including, without limitation, due to faa groundings of certain aircraft types or due to the closure of the faa's aircraft registry during government shutdowns); outbreaks of disease; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under "business - competition," the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, loyalty programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, operational reliability, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities. the company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded international operations and/or extended operations ("etops"). the company's international flight offerings are subject to cbp-mandated procedures, which can affect the company's operations, costs, and customer experience. the company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the customer experience and to assist 27 cbp with its inspection and processing duties; however, the company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various cbp measures or the lack of cbp resources will have on company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. international flying requires the company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. certain international routes served by the company are also subject to specific aircraft equipage requirements and unique consumer behavior. route-specific equipage requirements and unique consumer behavior, together or individually, may (i) restrict the company's flexibility when scheduling and routing aircraft and crews, (ii) require the company to modify its policies or procedures, and (iii) impact the company's operational performance, costs, and customer experience. in addition, international flying exposes the company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. to the extent the company seeks to serve additional international destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the dot and/or approvals from the faa, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. the company's operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions may subject the company to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than, or in addition to, u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. laws. furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. laws governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company's employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the company's reputation and/or its results of operations. in first quarter 2019, the company began service to hawaii after receiving approval from the faa for etops, a regulatory requirement to operate between the u.s. mainland and the hawaiian islands. the company is subject to additional, ongoing, etops-specific regulatory and procedural requirements, which present operational and compliance risks to the company's business, including costs associated therewith. the company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company's operating results. as discussed below under "legal proceedings," the company is subject to pending litigation. regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the company may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should the company fail to prevail in these or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the company's reputation and brand could be harmed if it were to experience significant negative publicity, including through social media. the company operates in a public-facing industry with significant exposure to social media. negative publicity, whether or not justified, can spread rapidly through social media. to the extent that the company is unable to respond timely and appropriately to negative publicity, the company's reputation and brand can be harmed. damage to the company's overall reputation and brand could have a negative impact on its financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2019 , the company operated a total of 122 aircraft under operating and finance leases. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. the company also has 67 aircraft under operating and finance lease that have been subleased to another carrier. further information about these leases is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company's financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or rising. the company expects to consume approximately 2.2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2020 . based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company's fuel and oil expense by approximately $22 million for 2020 , excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2019 , the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for future periods. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different types of hedging strategies. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company's jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2019 , was an asset of $110 million . in addition, $25 million in cash collateral deposits were held by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2019 . the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2019 , prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $143 million . fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2019 , levels, except underlying futures prices. the company's credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts that are in an asset position to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2019 , the company had nine counterparties in which the derivatives held were an asset. to manage credit risk, the company selects and periodically reviews counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and 60 monitors the market position of the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2019 , the company had agreements with all of its active counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty's credit rating. the c ompany also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted as collateral whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts held as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2019 , at which such postings are triggered. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. the company has found that financial derivative instruments in commodities, such as west texas intermediate crude oil, brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. in addition, to add further protection, the company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company's and its counterparty's credit ratings. as of december 31, 2019 , no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. due to the significance of the company's fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company's tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company's strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has an " a -" rating with fitch, a " bbb +" rating with standard &amp; poor's, and an " a3 " credit rating with moody's as of december 31, 2019 , all of which are considered "investment grade." as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company's short-term and long-term debt. 61 the following table presents the company's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding, excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, as of december 31, 2019 : (in millions) december 31, 2019 2.75% notes due 2022 $ 300 3.00% notes due 2026 300 7.375% debentures due 2027 100 3.45% notes due 2027 300 the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027 had at one point been converted to a floating rate, but the company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to it. the effect of this termination was that the interest associated with this debt prospectively reverted back to its original fixed rate. as a result of the gain realized on this transaction, which is being amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the following table displays the characteristics of the company's secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2019 : principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 134 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company's floating rate debt totaled $683 million , and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 1.73 years at floating rates averaging 3.12 percent for the year ended december 31, 2019 . the company's floating rate debt represented 25.6 percent of the company's total outstanding debt as of december 31, 2019 . in addition, the company's total debt (both floating and fixed rate debt) divided by total assets was 10.3 percent as of december 31, 2019 . the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $2.5 billion , and short-term investments, which totaled $1.5 billion at december 31, 2019 . see notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2019 , would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company's floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2019 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company's net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company's cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held from or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2019 , an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company's earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company's earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company's earnings or cash flow associated with the company's publicly traded fixed-rate debt. 62 the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company's revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2019 , the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. the company's hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company's credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover, and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, but the air travel generally occurs after that time; therefore, the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. there was no cash reserved for this purpose as of december 31, 2019. a majority of the company's sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company's credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company's public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company's air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2019 , the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 63qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk southwest has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, and has commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. southwest has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 96 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the 29 table of contents company accounting for its hedging program and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging. the company utilizes its fuel hedges as a form of insurance against significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume 1.2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2004. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $12 million per year. the fair values of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2003, were net assets of $251 million. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $164 million, is classified as fuel hedge contracts in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $87 million, is included in other assets. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2003, prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $125 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2003, levels, except underlying futures prices. financial market risk. airline operators are inherently capital intensive as the vast majority of the company assets are expensive aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to capitalize conservatively and grow capacity steadily and profitably. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and an a credit rating on its senior unsecured fixed-rate debt with standard poor and fitch ratings agencies, and a baa1 credit rating with moody rating agency. the company aircraft secured notes and french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, during 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements relating to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due march 1, 2012, and $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due november 1, 2006. due to these transactions, the company considers these debts to also be at floating rates. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the aircraft secured notes and french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt on any of the semi-annual principal and interest payment dates. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. excluding the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had outstanding senior unsecured notes totaling $300 million at december 31, 2003. these senior unsecured notes currently have a weighted-average maturity of 9.3 years at fixed rates averaging 7.75 percent at december 31, 2003, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the fixed-rate portion of the company pass-through certificates consists of its class a certificates and class b certificates, which totaled $193 million at december 31, 2003. these class a and class b certificates had a weighted-average maturity of 2.3 years at fixed rates averaging 5.58 percent at december 31, 2003. the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $964 million, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 4.6 years at floating rates averaging 1.47 percent at december 31, 2003. in total, 30 table of contents the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 6.5 percent and 13.0 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2003. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.9 billion at december 31, 2003. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money markets, investment grade commercial paper, and other highly rated financial instruments. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2003, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2003, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $1 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance, short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2003, an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to various financial covenants included in its credit card transaction processing agreement, the revolving credit facility, and outstanding debt agreements. covenants included the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and minimum asset fair values. the company met or exceeded the minimum standards set forth in these agreements as of december 31, 2003. however, if conditions change and the company failed to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreements, it could reduce the availability of cash under the agreements or increase the costs to keep these agreements intact as written. 31 table of contentsqualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. cash generated in 2004 and in 2003 primarily was used to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. cash flows used in investing activities in 2004 totaled $1.9 billion compared to $1.2 billion in 2003. investing activities in both years primarily consisted of payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 46 new 737-700 aircraft in 2004 (and leased one additional 737-700) versus the purchase of 17 new 737-700s in 2003. however, progress payments for future deliveries were substantially higher in 2003 than 2004, due to the fact that, during 2003, the company accelerated the delivery for several aircraft from future years into 2004, and exercised options for several 2004 and 2005 deliveries. these decisions resulted in an acceleration of progress payments to the manufacturer related to the aircraft. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. also, in 2004, the company made an initial payment of $34 million for certain ata assets, and provided ata with $40 million in debtor-in-possession financing. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. net cash provided by financing activities was $133 million in 2004, primarily from the issuance of $520 million in long-term debt. the majority of the debt issuance was the $350 million senior unsecured notes issued in september 2004, and the fourth quarter 2004 issuance of $112 million in floating-rate financing. the largest cash outflows in financing activities were from the company repurchase of $246 million of its common stock during 2004, and the redemption of long-term debt, primarily the $175 million aircraft secured notes that came due in november 2004. for 2003, net cash used in financing activities was $48 million. cash used primarily was for the redemption of its $100 million senior unsecured 8 3/4% notes originally issued in 1991. this was mostly offset by proceeds of $93 million from the exercise of employee stock options. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company has various options available to meet its 2005 capital and operating commitments, including cash on hand at december 31, 2004, of $1.3 billion, internally generated funds, and a $575 million bank revolving line of credit. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize earnings and supplement cash requirements. the company believes it has access to a wide variety of financing arrangements because of its excellent credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability. the company currently has outstanding shelf registrations for the issuance of up to $650 million in public debt securities and pass through certificates, which it may utilize for aircraft financings or other purposes in the future. the company currently expects that a portion of these securities will be issued in 2005, primarily to replace debt that is coming due and to fund current fleet growth plans. 22 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments southwest has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. along with the receipt of 47 new 737-700 aircraft in 2004 (one of which is leased), the company exercised its remaining options for aircraft to be delivered in 2005, and several more options for aircraft to be delivered in 2006. the following table details the company current firm orders, options, and purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft: current schedule firm options* 2005 34 2006 26 8 2007 25 29 2008 6 45 2009-2012 177 total 91 259 * includes purchase rights the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from the manufacturer and must be exercised two years prior to the contractual delivery date. the company has engaged in off-balance sheet arrangements in the leasing of aircraft. the leasing of aircraft provides flexibility to the company effectively as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating the aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for leased aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as shown above and as disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the company operates 95 aircraft that it has leased from third parties, of which 88 are operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating lease are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft are shown below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2004: obligations by period (in millions) 2006 2008 beyond contractual obligations 2005 - 2007 - 2009 2009 total long-term debt (1) $ 129 $ 707 $ 25 $ 936 $ 1,797 capital lease commitments (2) 24 26 26 26 102 operating lease commitments 343 535 430 1,369 2,677 aircraft purchase commitments (3) 920 1,232 105 2,257 other purchase commitments 120 78 15 127 340 total contractual obligations $ 1,536 $ 2,578 $ 601 $ 2,458 $ 7,173 (1) includes current maturities, but excludes amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements (2) includes amounts classified as interest (3) firm orders from the manufacturer 23 table of contents the company currently expects that it will issue a portion of its $650 million in outstanding shelf registrations for public debt securities during 2005. there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2004. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. in january 2004, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company common stock, utilizing present and anticipated proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. during 2004, the company repurchased approximately 17.0 million of its common shares for a total of approximately $246 million. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with united states gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experiences and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2004 was $529 million, compared to $462 million as of december 31, 2003. estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage , tickets that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and members of the airline industry have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date travel is provided. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns, as noted, can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the 24 table of contents company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, and promotional fare activity. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. furthermore, the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2004, the company had approximately $11.9 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $10.0 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 329 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2004, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 88 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2004, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated estimated useful life residual value aircraft and engines 20 to 25 years 2%-15 % aircraft parts fleet life 4 % ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10 % leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0 % in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types and recommendations from boeing, the manufacturer of the company aircraft. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, southwest has continued to operate all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairments related to its 25 table of contents existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices, and accounts for them under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities (sfas 133). see qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on sfas 133, the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 requires that all derivatives be marked to market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2004, the company was a party to over 300 financial derivative instruments, related to fuel hedging, for the years 2005 through 2009. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2004, was $796 million, compared to $251 million at december 31, 2003. the large increase in fair value primarily was due to the dramatic increase in energy prices throughout 2004, and the company addition of derivative instruments to increase its hedge positions in future years. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically, as was evident during 2004, based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices, as required by sfas 133. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on historical variations to those like commodities. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. based on these actual results once all values and prices become known, the company estimates have proved to be materially accurate. estimating the fair value of these fuel hedging derivatives and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine how they are accounted for under sfas 133. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel hedging instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result, as defined by sfas 133. this could result in the immediate recording of charges or income, even though the derivative instrument may not expire until a 26 table of contents future period. historically, the company has not experienced significant ineffectiveness in its fuel hedges accounted for under sfas 133, in relation to the fair value of the underlying financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 is a complex accounting standard with stringent requirements including the documentation of a company hedging strategy, statistical analysis to qualify a commodity for hedge accounting both on a historical and a prospective basis, and strict contemporaneous documentation that is required at the time each hedge is executed by the company. as required by sfas 133, the company assesses the effectiveness of each of its individual hedges on a quarterly basis. the company also examines the effectiveness of its entire hedging program on a quarterly basis utilizing statistical analysis. this analysis involves utilizing regression and other statistical analyses that compare changes in the price of jet fuel to changes in the prices of the commodities used for hedging purposes (crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline). the company also utilizes financial derivative instruments in the form of interest rate swap agreements. the primary objective for the company use of interest rate hedges is to reduce the volatility of net interest income by better matching the repricing of its assets and liabilities. concurrently, the company interest rate hedges are also intended to take advantage of market conditions in which short-term rates are significantly lower than the fixed longer term rates on the company long-term debt. during 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements relating to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, and $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due 2006. the floating rate paid under each agreement sets in arrears. under the first agreement, the company pays the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus a margin every six months and receives 6.5% every six months on a notional amount of $385 million until 2012. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2004 is estimated to be 4.490 percent based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2004. under the second agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.496% every six months on a notional amount of $375 million until 2006. based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2004, the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2004 is estimated to be 4.695 percent. during 2004, the company also entered into an interest rate swap agreement relating to its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014. under this agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.25% every six months on a notional amount of $350 million until 2014. the floating rate is set in advance. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2004 was 2.814 percent. the company interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges, as defined by sfas 133. in addition, these interest rate swap agreements qualify for the shortcut method of accounting for hedges, as defined by sfas 133. under the shortcut method, the hedges are assumed to be perfectly effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted regularly, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as necessary, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the long-term debt. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, excluding accrued interest, at december 31, 2004, was a liability of approximately $16 million. this amount is recorded in other deferred liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. in accordance with fair value hedging, the offsetting entry is an adjustment to decrease the carrying value of long-term debt. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. 27 table of contents forward-looking statements some statements in this form 10-k (or otherwise made by the company or on the company behalf from time to time in other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, news releases, conferences, world wide web postings or otherwise) which are not historical facts, may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about southwest estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements. southwest uses the words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, forecasts, may, will, should, and similar expressions to identify these forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or the company present expectations. factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to: items directly linked to the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, such as the adverse impact of new airline and airport security directives on the company costs and customer demand for travel, changes in the transportation security administration scope for managing u.s. airport security, the availability and cost of war-risk and other aviation insurance, including the federal government provision of third party war-risk coverage, and the possibility of additional incidents that could cause the public to question the safety and/or efficiency of air travel. war or other military actions by the u.s. or others. competitive factors, such as fare sales and capacity decisions by the company and its competitors, changes in competitors flight schedules, mergers and acquisitions, codesharing programs, and airline bankruptcies. general economic conditions, which could adversely affect the demand for travel in general and consumer ticket purchasing habits, as well as decisions by major freight customers on how they allocate freight deliveries among different types of carriers. factors that could affect the company ability to control its costs, such as the results of employee labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, costs for health care, the largely unpredictable prices of jet fuel, crude oil, and heating oil, the continued effectiveness of the company fuel hedges, changes in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, capacity decisions by the company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft airframe or engine repairs and regulatory requirements, changes in commission policy, availability of capital markets, future financing decisions made by the company, and reliance on single suppliers for both the company aircraft and its aircraft engines. disruptions to operations due to adverse weather conditions and air traffic control-related constraints. internal failures of technology or large-scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications, or the internet. risks involved with the company acquisition of certain assets from ata airlines, inc. (ata), including the ability to efficiently utilize the rights to the leases acquired, and the collectibility of loans made to ata. caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the company forward-looking statements, which represent the company views only as of the date this report is filed. the company undertakes no 28 table of contents obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. item 7a. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk southwest has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, and has commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. southwest has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 95 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging. the company utilizes its fuel hedges, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume 1.3 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2005. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $13 million per year. the fair values of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2004, were net assets of $796 million. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $428 million, is classified as fuel hedge contracts in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $368 million, is included in other assets. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten- percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2004, prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $300 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2004, levels, except underlying futures prices. outstanding financial derivative instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. however, the company does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. the credit exposure related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. at december 31, 2004, the company had agreements with seven counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. at december 31, 2004, the company held $330 million in cash collateral deposits, and another $150 million in u.s. treasury bills, under these bilateral collateral provisions. these collateral deposits serve to decrease, but not totally eliminate, the credit risk associated with the company hedging program. the cash deposits are included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. in accordance with sfas 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments 29 table of contents of liabilities , the u.s. treasury bills, supplied as non-cash collateral by counterparties, are not reflected on the company consolidated balance sheet. financial market risk. the vast majority of the company assets are expensive aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to capitalize conservatively and grow capacity steadily and profitably. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and an a credit rating on its senior unsecured fixed-rate debt with standard poor and fitch ratings agencies, and a baa1 credit rating with moody rating agency. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due 2006, and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. excluding the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes, and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had outstanding senior unsecured notes totaling $300 million at december 31, 2004. these senior unsecured notes currently have a weighted-average maturity of 8.3 years at fixed rates averaging 7.75 percent at december 31, 2004, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the fixed-rate portion of the company pass-through certificates consists of its class a certificates and class b certificates, which totaled $174 million at december 31, 2004. these class a and class b certificates had a weighted-average maturity of 1.5 years at fixed rates averaging 5.63 percent at december 31, 2004. the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $1.2 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 7.1 years at floating rates averaging 4.42 percent at december 31, 2004. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 5.2 percent and 13.6 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2004. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.3 billion at december 31, 2004. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money markets, investment grade commercial paper, and other highly rated financial instruments. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2004, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2004, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $2 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance, short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2004, an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. 30 table of contents the company is also subject to various financial covenants included in its credit card transaction processing agreement, the revolving credit facility, and outstanding debt agreements. covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings. for the revolving credit facility, the company shall also maintain, at all times, a coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of not less than 1.25 to 1.0. the company met or exceeded the minimum standards set forth in these agreements as of december 31, 2004. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreements, it could reduce the availability of cash under the agreements or increase the costs to keep these agreements intact as written. 31 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating southwest business. the company business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. please note that additional risks not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. southwest business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. the cost of fuel is largely unpredictable, and has a significant impact on the company operating results. also, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a negative impact on the company operations and operating results. due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, the company generally has not been able to increase fares when fuel prices have risen in the past and the company may not be able to do so in the future. from time to time the company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. changes in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, the continued ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, and the continued effectiveness of the company fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all significant factors impacting the company operating results. for more information on southwest fuel hedging arrangements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. southwest business is labor-intensive. historically, the company relationships with its employees have been very good. however, the results of labor contract negotiations (approximately 82% of the company employees are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions), employee hiring and retention rates, and costs for health care are items with potentially significant impact on the company operating results. 6 table of contents southwest relies on technology to operate its business and any failure of these systems could harm the company business. southwest is increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate its business, enhance customer service, and increase employee productivity, including the company computerized airline reservation system, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems, website, automated boarding passes system, and the rapid check-in self service kiosks. any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or large-scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications, or the internet, could result in the loss of revenue or important data, increase the company expenses, and generally harm the company business. the travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens. the attacks of september 11, 2001 materially impacted, and continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for southwest and the airline industry generally. substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of september 11 have increased costs to airlines. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could negatively affect southwest and the airline industry. the war in iraq further decreased demand for air travel during the first half of 2003, and additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations. insurance cost increases or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the company operations and financial results. the company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airline carriers. accordingly, the company insurance costs increased significantly. the federal homeland security act of 2002 requires the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers through a period of time that has now been extended to december 31, 2006. if the federal insurance program terminates, the company would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. changes in or additional government regulation could increase the company operating costs or limit the company ability to conduct business. airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the company costs or reduce revenues. the airline industry is intensely competitive. the airline industry is extremely competitive. southwest competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. additional mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, and airline restructuring through bankruptcy may make other carriers more competitive with the company. disruptions to operations due to factors beyond southwest control could adversely affect the company. like all other airlines, southwest is subject to delays caused by factors beyond its control, including adverse weather conditions, air traffic congestion at airports, and increased security measures. delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization, and increase costs, all of which negatively affect profitability. during snow, rain, fog, storms, or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. catastrophic weather conditions such as hurricanes may disrupt operations, and revenues, for a substantial period of time. 7 table of contents southwest low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. factors affecting the company ability to control its costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of employee labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by the company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, availability of capital markets, and future financing decisions made by the company. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. cash generated in 2005 and in 2004 primarily was used to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. cash flows used in investing activities in 2005 totaled $1.2 billion compared to $1.7 billion in 2004. investing activities in both years primarily consisted of payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 33 new 737-700 19 table of contents aircraft in 2005 versus the purchase of 46 new 737-700s in 2004. in addition, progress payments for future deliveries were higher in 2004 than 2005. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2004 were also reduced $124 million by a change in the balance of the company short-term investments, namely auction rate securities. also, 2005 and 2004 included payments of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, for certain ata assets. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the company transaction with ata. net cash provided by financing activities was $213 million in 2005, primarily from the issuance of $300 million senior unsecured 5.125% notes in february 2005, net of the redemption of the company $100 million senior unsecured 8% notes in march 2005. during 2005, the company also received proceeds of $132 million from employee exercises of stock options under its stock plans and repurchased $55 million of its common stock. in 2004, net cash provided by financing activities was $133 million, primarily from the issuance of $520 million in long-term debt. the majority of the debt issuance was the $350 million senior unsecured notes issued in september 2004, and the fourth quarter 2004 issuance of $112 million in floating-rate financing. the largest 2004 cash outflows in financing activities were from the company repurchase of $246 million of its common stock during 2004, and the redemption of long-term debt, primarily the $175 million aircraft secured notes that came due in november 2004. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company has various options available to meet its 2006 capital and operating commitments, including cash on hand and short-term investments at december 31, 2005, of $2.5 billion, internally generated funds, and a $600 million bank revolving line of credit. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize earnings and supplement cash requirements. the company believes it has access to a wide variety of financing arrangements because of its excellent credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability. the company currently has outstanding shelf registrations for the issuance of up to $1.3 billion in public debt securities and pass through certificates, which it may utilize for aircraft financings or other purposes in the future. the company may issue a portion of these securities in 2006, primarily to replace debt that is coming due and to fund current fleet growth plans. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments southwest has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. along with the receipt of 33 new 737-700 aircraft in 2005, the company has exercised its remaining options for aircraft to be delivered in 2006, and some of its options for aircraft to be delivered in 2007. as of january 2006, the company had firm orders for 33 737-700 aircraft in 2006, 29 in 2007, and six in 2008. the company also had options for seven 737-700 aircraft in 2007, 25 in 2008, and an additional 217 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft for the years 2007 through 2012. the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from the manufacturer and must be exercised two years prior to the contractual delivery date. the company has engaged in off-balance sheet arrangements in the leasing of aircraft. the leasing of aircraft provides flexibility to the company effectively as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating the aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for leased aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as shown in item 2., and as disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the company operates 93 aircraft leased from third parties, of which 84 are operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft are included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 20 table of contents the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2005: obligations by period beyond contractual obligations 2006 2007-2008 2009-2010 2010 total (in millions) long-term debt(1) $ 596 $ 123 $ 28 $ 1,222 $ 1,969 interest commitments(2) 37 51 45 214 347 capital lease commitments(3) 16 32 31 12 91 operating lease commitments 332 583 454 1,164 2,533 aircraft purchase commitments(4) 740 538 1,278 other purchase commitments 44 26 24 11 105 total contractual obligations $ 1,765 $ 1,353 $ 582 $ 2,623 $ 6,323 (1) includes current maturities, but excludes amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements (2) related to fixed-rate debt (3) includes amounts classified as interest (4) firm orders from the manufacturer the company may issue a portion of its $1.3 billion in outstanding shelf registrations as public debt securities during 2006. there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2005. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company revolving credit facility. in january 2004, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company common stock, utilizing present and anticipated proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. this program was completed during first quarter 2005, resulting in the total repurchase of approximately 20.9 million of its common shares. in january 2006, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company common stock. repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with united states gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2005 was $649 million, compared to $529 million as of december 31, 2004. 21 table of contents estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage , tickets that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and members of the airline industry have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date travel is provided. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. holding other factors constant, a ten-percent change in the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets for 2005 would have resulted in a $13 million change in passenger revenues recognized for that period. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns, as noted, can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, and promotional fare activity. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. no material adjustments were recorded for years 2003, 2004, or 2005. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2005, the company had approximately $12.9 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $11.0 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 361 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2005, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 84 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2005, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated residual estimated useful life value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types and recommendations from boeing, the manufacturer of the company aircraft. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization 22 table of contents expense, as required by gaap. the company does not expect its transition to a new, more efficient heavy maintenance program for 737-300 and 737-500 airframes in 2006 to have an impact on the estimated useful lives for those aircraft. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on this change. when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, southwest has continued to operate all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairments related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices, and accounts for them under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended (sfas 133). see qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on sfas 133, the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 requires that all derivatives be marked to market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2005, the company was a party to over 400 financial derivative instruments, related to fuel hedging, for year 2006 and beyond. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005, was $1.7 billion, compared to $796 million at december 31, 2004. the large increase in fair value primarily was due to the dramatic increase in energy prices throughout 2005, and the company addition of derivative instruments to increase its hedge positions in future years. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically, as was evident during 2005, based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the -counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices, as required by sfas 133. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on historical variations to those like commodities. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. based on these actual results once all values and prices become known, the company estimates have proved to be materially accurate. estimating the fair value of these fuel hedging derivatives and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine how they are accounted for under sfas 133. to the extent that the total change in the estimated fair value of a fuel hedging instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel 23 table of contents to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to -period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result, as defined by sfas 133. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, even though the derivative instrument may not expire until a future period. likewise, if a cash flow hedge ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, those periodic changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded to other gains and losses in the income statement in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil-related commodities, especially considering the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. in addition, given the magnitude of the company fuel hedge portfolio total market value, ineffectiveness can be highly material to financial results. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate. this may result in increased volatility in the company results. prior to 2005, the company had not experienced significant ineffectiveness in its fuel hedges accounted for under sfas 133, in relation to the fair value of the underlying financial derivative instruments. the significant increase in the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains on derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during 2005 was due to a number of factors. these factors included: the recent significant increase in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses in hedging. the number of instances in which the company has discontinued hedge accounting for specific hedges has increased recently, primarily due to the foregoing reasons. in these cases, the company has determined that the hedges will not regain effectiveness in the time period remaining until settlement and therefore must discontinue special hedge accounting, as defined by sfas 133. when this happens, any changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are marked to market through earnings in the period of change. as the fair value of the company hedge positions increases in amount, there is a higher degree of probability that there will be continued and correspondingly higher variability recorded in the income statement and that the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in future periods will be material. this is primarily due to the fact that small differences in the correlation of crude oil-related products are leveraged over large dollar volumes. sfas 133 is a complex accounting standard with stringent requirements, including the documentation of a company hedging strategy, statistical analysis to qualify a commodity for hedge accounting both on a historical and a prospective basis, and strict contemporaneous documentation that is required at the time each hedge is executed by the company. as required by sfas 133, the company assesses the effectiveness of each of its individual hedges on a quarterly basis. the company also examines the effectiveness of its entire hedging program on a quarterly basis utilizing statistical analysis. this analysis involves utilizing regression and other statistical analyses that compare changes in the price of jet fuel to changes in the prices of the commodities used for hedging purposes (crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline). the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges, as required by sfas 133. any changes to the company methodology for estimating future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) will be applied prospectively, in accordance with sfas 133. while the company would expect that a change in the methodology for estimating future cash flows would result in more effective hedges over the long-term, such a change could result in more ineffectiveness, as defined, in the short-term, due to the prospective nature of enacting the change. the company also utilizes financial derivative instruments in the form of interest rate swap agreements. the primary objective for the company use of interest rate hedges is to reduce the volatility of net interest income by better matching the repricing of its assets and liabilities. concurrently, the company interest rate hedges are also intended to take advantage of market conditions in which short-term rates are significantly lower than the fixed longer term rates on the company long-term debt. during 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements relating to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, and $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due 2006. the floating rate paid under each agreement sets in arrears. under the first agreement, the company pays the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus a margin every six months and receives 6.5% every six months on a notional amount of $385 million until 2012. the average floating rate paid 24 table of contents under this agreement during 2005 is estimated to be 6.46 percent based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2005. under the second agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.496% every six months on a notional amount of $375 million until november 1, 2006. based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2005, the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2005 is estimated to be 6.73 percent. during 2004, the company also entered into an interest rate swap agreement relating to its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014. under this agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.25% every six months on a notional amount of $350 million until 2014. the floating rate is set in advance. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2005 was 3.82 percent. the company interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges, as defined by sfas 133. in addition, these interest rate swap agreements qualify for the shortcut method of accounting for hedges, as defined by sfas 133. under the shortcut method, the hedges are assumed to be perfectly effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted regularly, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as necessary, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the long-term debt. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, excluding accrued interest, at december 31, 2005, was a liability of approximately $31 million. the comparable fair value of these same agreements at december 31, 2004, was a liability of $16 million. the long-term portion of these amounts are recorded in other deferred liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet for each respective year and the current portion is reflected in accrued liabilities. in accordance with fair value hedging, the offsetting entry is an adjustment to decrease the carrying value of long-term debt. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices, would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. forward-looking statements some statements in this form 10-k (or otherwise made by the company or on the company behalf from time to time in other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, news releases, conferences, world wide web postings or otherwise) which are not historical facts, may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about southwest estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements. southwest uses the words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, forecasts, may, will, should, and similar expressions to identify these forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or the company present expectations. factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to, those set forth under item 1a risk factors. caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the company forward-looking statements, which represent the company views only as of the date this report is filed. the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. item 7a. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk southwest has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, and has commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. southwest has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 93 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for 25 table of contents information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging. the company utilizes its fuel hedges, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.4 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2006. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $14 million per year, excluding any impact of the company fuel hedges. the fair values of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2005, were net assets of $1.7 billion. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $640 million, is classified as fuel hedge contracts in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $1.0 billion, is included in other assets. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten-percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2005, prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $420 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2005, levels, except underlying futures prices. outstanding financial derivative instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. however, the company does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. the credit exposure related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. at december 31, 2005, the company had agreements with seven counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. at december 31, 2005, the company held $950 million in cash collateral deposits under these bilateral collateral provisions. these collateral deposits serve to decrease, but not totally eliminate, the credit risk associated with the company hedging program. the deposits are included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. financial market risk. the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and an a credit rating on its senior unsecured fixed-rate debt with standard poor and fitch ratings agencies, and a baa1 credit rating with moody rating agency. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due 2006, and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. excluding the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes, and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had outstanding senior unsecured notes totaling $500 million at december 31, 2005. these senior unsecured notes currently have a weighted-average maturity of 11.3 years at fixed rates averaging 6.125 percent at december 31, 2005, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the fixed-rate portion of 26 table of contents the company pass-through certificates consists of its class a certificates and class b certificates, which totaled $154 million at december 31, 2005. these class a and class b certificates had fixed rates averaging 5.7 percent at december 31, 2005 and mature during 2006. the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $1.2 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 6.0 years at floating rates averaging 6.27 percent at december 31, 2005. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 6.2 percent and 11.6 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2005. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $2.3 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $251 million, at december 31, 2005. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, auction rate securities, and other highly rated financial instruments. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2005, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2005, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $2 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance, short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2005, an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to various financial covenants included in its credit card transaction processing agreement, the revolving credit facility, and outstanding debt agreements. covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings. for the revolving credit facility, the company shall also maintain, at all times, a coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of not less than 1.25 to 1.0. the company met or exceeded the minimum standards set forth in these agreements as of december 31, 2005. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreements, it could reduce the availability of cash under the agreements or increase the costs to keep these agreements intact as written. 27 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating southwest business. the company business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. additional risks not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. southwest business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high fuel costs and/or significant disruptions in the supply of fuel, could adversely affect our results of operations. airline operators are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and, therefore, are impacted by changes in jet fuel prices. the cost of fuel, which was at an historically high level over the last two years, is largely unpredictable and has a significant impact on the company results of operations. jet fuel and oil consumed for fiscal 2006 and 2005 represented approximately 26 percent and 20 percent of southwest operating expenses, respectively. fuel availability, as well as pricing, is also 7 table of contents impacted by political and economic factors. we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability; however, it is difficult to predict the future availability of jet fuel due to the following, among other, factors: dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; limited refining capacity; and the possibility of changes in governmental policies on jet fuel production, transportation, and marketing. significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a negative impact on the company operations and results of operations. due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, the company ability to increase fares is limited, and it is not certain that future fuel cost increases can be covered by increasing fares. from time to time the company enters into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs. changes in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, and the effectiveness of the company fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all significant factors impacting the company results of operations. for more information on southwest fuel hedging arrangements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. southwest business is labor-intensive; we could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group. the airline business is labor intensive. wages, salaries, and benefits represented approximately 37 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2006. in addition, as of december 31, 2006, approximately 82 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. the company ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents are subject to an agreement with the transport workers union of america, afl-cio ( twu ), which becomes amendable on june 30, 2008. however, under certain conditions, twu could elect to give notice to the company by june 1, 2007, of its desire to make the agreement amendable on june 30, 2007. during second quarter 2006, twu membership voted to not make the contract amendable on june 30, 2007. the company is unable to predict whether future votes between now and june 2007 would result in the same outcome. the company pilots are subject to an agreement with the southwest airlines pilots association ( swapa ), which became amendable during september 2006. the company and swapa recently began discussions on a new agreement. although, historically, the company relationships with its employees have been good, the following items could have a significant impact on the company results of operations: results of labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, the impact of work rules, and costs for health care. southwest business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond its control. our business, and the airline industry in general, is particularly impacted by changes in economic and other conditions that are largely outside of our control, including, among others: actual or potential changes in international, national, regional, and local economic, business, and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, interest rate increases, war, terrorist attacks, and political instability; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures; and weather and natural disasters. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. southwest relies on technology to operate its business, and any failure of these systems could harm the company. southwest is increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate its business, enhance customer service and back office support systems, and increase employee productivity, including the company computerized airline reservation system, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems, website at www.southwest.com, automated boarding passes 8 table of contents system, and the e-ticket check-in self service kiosks. any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or large-scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications, or the internet, could result in the loss of revenue or important data, increase the company expenses, and generally harm the company business. in addition, our growth strategies may be dependent on our ability to effectively implement technology advancements. the travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm our industry and our business. the attacks of september 11, 2001, materially impacted, and continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for southwest and the airline industry generally. the department of homeland security and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs. substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of september 11 have increased costs to airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air travel. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could have a further significant negative impact on southwest and the airline industry. the war in iraq further decreased demand for air travel during the first half of 2003, and additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state government. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above, under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. our results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over our operations, including: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; increases in taxes; changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; the adoption of regulations that impact customer service standards, such as security standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise restrictions. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is extremely competitive. southwest competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. southwest low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. factors affecting the company ability to control its costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of employee labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by the company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, availability of capital markets, and future financing decisions made by the company. 9 table of contents qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 30 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. cash generated in 2006 and in 2005 was used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash flows used in investing activities in 2006 totaled $1.5 billion compared to $1.1 billion in 2005. investing activities in both years primarily consisted of payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 34 new 737-700 aircraft and two previously owned 737-700 aircraft in 2006 versus the purchase of 33 new 737-700s in 2005. in addition, progress payments for future deliveries were higher in 2006 than 2005. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2006 were also reduced by $117 million related to a change in the balance of the company short-term investments, namely auction rate securities. net cash used in financing activities was $801 million in 2006, primarily from the repurchase of $800 million of common stock and the repayment of $607 million 22 table of contents in debt. the company repurchased a total of 49 million shares of outstanding common stock during 2006 as a result of three buyback programs authorized by the company board of directors. these uses were partially offset by the issuance of $300 million senior unsecured 5.75% notes in december 2006 and $260 million in proceeds from exercises of employee stock options. during 2005, the company generated a net $260 million from financing activities primarily from the issuance of $300 million senior unsecured 5.125% notes in february 2005, and proceeds of $132 million from exercises of employee stock options. these were partially offset by the redemption of the company $100 million senior unsecured 8% notes in march 2005 and the repurchase of $55 million of common stock. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company has various options available to meet its 2007 capital and operating commitments, including cash on hand and short-term investments at december 31, 2006, totaling $1.8 billion, internally generated funds, and a $600 million bank revolving line of credit. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize earnings and supplement cash requirements. the company believes it has access to a wide variety of financing arrangements because of its excellent credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability. the company currently has outstanding shelf registrations for the issuance of up to $1.0 billion in public debt securities and pass through certificates, which it may utilize for aircraft financings or other purposes in the future. the company may issue a portion of these securities in 2007, primarily to fund current fleet growth plans or to take advantage of certain strategic growth opportunities if they were to arise. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments southwest has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 36, 737-700 aircraft in 2006 34 of which were new aircraft from boeing, and two of which were pre-owned and purchased from a third party. as of december 31, 2006, the company had exercised all remaining options for aircraft to be delivered in 2007, and has firm orders for 37 737-700 aircraft in 2007, 30 in 2008, 18 in 2009, and ten each in 2010-2012. the company also had options for four 737-700 aircraft in 2008, 18 in 2009, 32 in 2010, and 30 each in 2011 and 2012. southwest also has an additional 54 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft for the years 2008 through 2014. the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from the manufacturer and must be exercised 18 months prior to the contractual delivery date. the leasing of aircraft effectively provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating the aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for leased aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. the company operates 93 aircraft leased from third parties, of which 84 are operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft are included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are an off-balance sheet item, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $211 million at december 31, 2006. 23 table of contents the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2006: obligations by period 2008 2010 beyond contractual obligations 2007 - 2009 - 2011 2011 total (in millions) long-term debt(1) $ 111 $ 25 $ 29 $ 1,507 $ 1,672 interest commitments(2) 45 80 80 277 482 capital lease commitments(3) 16 32 27 75 operating lease commitments 360 598 453 1,000 2,411 aircraft purchase commitments(4) 1,004 1,225 656 184 3,069 other purchase commitments 34 47 26 107 total contractual obligations $ 1,570 $ 2,007 $ 1,271 $ 2,968 $ 7,816 (1) includes current maturities, but excludes amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements (2) related to fixed-rate debt (3) includes amounts classified as interest (4) firm orders from the manufacturer there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2006. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company revolving credit facility. in january 2004, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company common stock, utilizing present and anticipated proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. this program was completed during first quarter 2005, resulting in the total repurchase of approximately 20.9 million of the company common shares. in 2006, the company board of directors authorized three separate programs for the repurchase of up to a total of $1.0 billion of the company common stock $300 million authorized in january 2006, $300 million authorized in may 2006, and $400 million authorized in november 2006. repurchases have been made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. through december 31, 2006, these programs resulted in the repurchase of a total of 49.1 million shares for $800 million. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap (gaap). the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2006 was $799 million, compared to $649 million as of december 31, 2005. 24 table of contents estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage , tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and members of the airline industry have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date of travel. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. holding other factors constant, a ten-percent change in the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets for 2006 would have resulted in a $16 million, or .2%, change in passenger revenues recognized for that period. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns, as noted, can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, and promotional fare activity. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. no material adjustments were recorded for years 2004, 2005, or 2006. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2006, the company had approximately $13.9 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $11.8 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 397 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2006, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 84 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2006, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated residual estimated useful life value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types and recommendations from boeing, the manufacturer of the company aircraft. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. 25 table of contents when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, southwest has continued to operate all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairments related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices, and accounts for them under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended (sfas 133). see qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on sfas 133, the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 requires that all derivatives be marked to market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2006, the company was a party to over 480 financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for year 2007 and beyond. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2006, was $999 million, compared to $1.7 billion at december 31, 2005. the large decrease in fair value primarily was due to the decrease in energy prices in the second half of 2006, as well as the expiration of approximately $675 million in fuel derivative instruments that related to 2006, net of new derivative instruments the company added for future years. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically, as was evident during both 2005 and 2006, based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices, as required by sfas 133. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on historical variations to those like commodities. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in recent years, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company estimates have materially differed from actual results, resulting in increased volatility in the company periodic financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine how they are accounted for under sfas 133. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result, as defined by sfas 133. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire until a future period. 26 table of contents likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other gains and losses in the income statement in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the magnitude of the current fair market value of the company fuel derivatives and the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate. this may result, and has resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the significant increase in the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during recent periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for protection. the number of instances in which the company has discontinued hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, has increased recently, primarily due to these reasons. in these cases, the company has determined that the hedges will not regain effectiveness in the time period remaining until settlement and therefore must discontinue special hedge accounting, as defined by sfas 133. when this happens, any changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are marked to market through earnings in the period of change. as the fair value of the company hedge positions increases in amount, there is a higher degree of probability that there will be continued variability recorded in the income statement and that the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in future periods will be material. this is primarily due to the fact that small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products are leveraged over large dollar volumes. sfas 133 is a complex accounting standard with stringent requirements, including the documentation of a company hedging strategy, statistical analysis to qualify a commodity for hedge accounting both on a historical and a prospective basis, and strict contemporaneous documentation that is required at the time each hedge is designated by the company. as required by sfas 133, the company assesses the effectiveness of each of its individual hedges on a quarterly basis. the company also examines the effectiveness of its entire hedging program on a quarterly basis utilizing statistical analysis. this analysis involves utilizing regression and other statistical analyses that compare changes in the price of jet fuel to changes in the prices of the commodities used for hedging purposes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges, as required by sfas 133. during first quarter 2006, the company did revise its method for forecasting future cash flows. previously, the company had estimated future cash flows using actual market forward prices of like commodities and adjusting for historical differences from the company actual jet fuel purchase prices. the company new methodology utilizes a statistical-based regression equation with data from market forward prices of like commodities. this equation is then adjusted for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in the company fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors. this change to the company methodology for estimating future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) was applied prospectively, in accordance with the company interpretation of sfas 133. the company believes that this change for estimating future cash flows will result in more effective hedges over the long-term. the company also utilizes financial derivative instruments in the form of interest rate swap agreements. the primary objective for the company use of interest rate hedges is to reduce the volatility of net interest income by better matching the repricing of its assets and liabilities. during 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements relating to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, and $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates due 2006. the interest rate swap associated with the $375 million 5.496% class a-2 pass-through certificates expired on the date the certificates were repaid in fourth quarter 2006. the floating rate paid under the swap associated with the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012 sets in arrears. the company pays the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus a margin every six months and receives 6.5% every six months on a notional amount of $385 million until 2012. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2006 is estimated to be 7.63 percent based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2006. 27 table of contents the company is also party to an interest rate swap agreement relating to its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, in which the floating rate is set at the beginning of each six month period. under this agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.25% every six months on a notional amount of $350 million until 2014. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2006 was 5.69 percent. the company interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges, as defined by sfas 133. in addition, these interest rate swap agreements qualify for the shortcut method of accounting for hedges, as defined by sfas 133. under the shortcut method, the hedges are assumed to be perfectly effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted regularly, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as necessary, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the long-term debt. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, excluding accrued interest, at december 31, 2006, was a liability of approximately $30 million. the comparable fair value of these same agreements at december 31, 2005, was a liability of $31 million. the long-term portion of these amounts are recorded in other deferred liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet for each respective year. in accordance with fair value hedging, the offsetting entry is an adjustment to decrease the carrying value of long-term debt. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices, would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. share-based compensation the company has share-based compensation plans covering the majority of its employee groups, including plans adopted via collective bargaining, a plan covering the company board of directors, and plans related to employment contracts with one executive officer of the company. prior to january 1, 2006, the company accounted for stock-based compensation utilizing the intrinsic value method in accordance with the provisions of accounting principles board opinion no. 25 (apb 25), accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations. accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for fixed option plans because the exercise prices of employee stock options equaled or exceeded the market prices of the underlying stock on the dates of grant. however, prior to adoption of sfas 123r, share-based compensation had been included in pro forma disclosures in the financial statement footnotes for periods prior to 2006. effective january 1, 2006, the company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of sfas no. 123r, share-based payment using the modified retrospective transition method. among other items, sfas 123r eliminates the use of apb 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and requires companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. under the modified retrospective method, compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date, based on the requirements of sfas 123r for all share-based payments granted after that date, and based on the requirements of sfas 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of sfas 123r. in addition, results for prior periods have been retroactively adjusted utilizing the pro forma disclosures in those prior financial statements, except as noted. as part of this revision, the company recorded cumulative share-based compensation expense of $409 million for the period 1995-2005, resulting in a reduction to retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005. this adjustment, along with the creation of a net deferred income tax asset in the amount of $130 million, resulted in an offsetting increase to capital in excess of par value in the amount of $539 million in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005. the deferred tax asset represents the portion of the cumulative expense related to stock options that will result in a future tax deduction. the company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant utilizing a modified black-scholes option pricing model. the black-scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of short-term traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. however, certain assumptions used in the black-scholes model, such as expected term, can be adjusted to incorporate the unique characteristics of the company stock option awards. option valuation models require the input of somewhat subjective assumptions including expected stock price volatility and expected term. for 2005 and 2006, the company has relied on observations of both historical volatility trends, implied future volatility 28 table of contents observations as determined by independent third parties, and implied volatility from traded options on the company stock. for both 2006 and 2005 stock option grants, the company utilized expected volatility based on the expected life of the option, but within a range of 25% to 27%. prior to 2005, the company relied exclusively on historical volatility as an input for determining the estimated fair value of stock options. in determining the expected term of the option grants, the company has observed the actual terms of prior grants with similar characteristics, the actual vesting schedule of the grant, and assessed the expected risk tolerance of different optionee groups. other assumptions required for estimating fair value with the black-scholes model are the expected risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield of the company stock. the risk-free interest rates used were actual u.s. treasury zero-coupon rates for bonds matching the expected term of the option on the date of grant. the expected dividend yield of the company common stock over the expected term of the option on the date of grant was estimated based on the company current dividend yield, and adjusted for anticipated future changes. vesting terms for the company stock option plans differ based on the type of grant made and the group to which the options are granted. for grants made to employees under collective bargaining plans, vesting has ranged in length from immediate vesting to vesting periods in accordance with the period covered by the respective collective bargaining agreement. for other employee plans , options vest and become fully exercisable over three, five, or ten years of continued employment, depending upon the grant type. for grants in any of the company plans that are subject to graded vesting over a service period, the company recognizes expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. none of the company grants include performance-based or market-based vesting conditions, as defined. as of december 31, 2006, the company has $74 million in remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to past grants of stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. the total recognition period for the remaining unrecognized compensation cost is approximately ten years; however, the majority of this cost will be recognized over the next two years, in accordance with vesting provisions. over 80 percent of net unrecognized amount at december 31, 2006, related to options granted prior to the adoption of sfas 123r on january 1, 2006. in addition, the vast majority of the $80 million in share-based compensation expense reflected in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended december 31, 2006, was related to options granted prior to the adoption of sfas 123r. based on employee stock options expected to vest during 2007, the number of options eligible to be granted in future periods and the company expectation of future grants, the company expects the expense related to share-based compensation to decrease significantly during 2007 compared to 2006 expense. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. forward-looking statements some statements in this form 10-k (or otherwise made by the company or on the company behalf from time to time in other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, news releases, conferences, world wide web postings or otherwise) which are not historical facts, may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on, and include statements about, southwest estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements. specific forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and include, without limitation, words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, forecasts, may, will, should, and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or indicated by southwest forward-looking statements or from historical experience or the company present expectations. factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to, those set forth under item 1a risk factors. caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the company forward-looking statements, which represent the company views only as of the date this report is filed. the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, 29 table of contents whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. item 7a. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk southwest has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, and has commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. southwest has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 93 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.5 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2007. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $15 million per year, excluding any impact of the company derivative instruments. the fair values of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2006, were net assets of $999 million. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $369 million, is classified as fuel derivative contracts in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $630 million, is included in other assets. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten-percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2006, prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by up to $480 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2006, levels, except underlying futures prices. outstanding financial derivative instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. however, the company does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. the credit exposure related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. at december 31, 2006, the company had agreements with eight counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. at december 31, 2006, the company held $540 million in cash collateral deposits under these bilateral collateral provisions. these collateral deposits serve to decrease, but not totally eliminate, the credit risk associated with the company hedging program. the deposits are included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. financial market risk the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and an a credit rating on its senior unsecured fixed-rate debt with standard poor and fitch ratings agencies, and a baa1 credit rating with moody rating agency. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has 30 table of contents converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012 and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. excluding the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes, and the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had outstanding senior unsecured notes totaling $800 million at december 31, 2006. these senior unsecured notes currently have a weighted-average maturity of 10.2 years at fixed rates averaging 5.98 percent at december 31, 2006, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $843 million, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 7.0 years at floating rates averaging 6.74 percent for the twelve months ended december 31, 2006. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 7.4 percent and 7.8 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2006. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.4 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $369 million, at december 31, 2006. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, auction rate securities, and other highly rated financial instruments. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2006, would not have a material affect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2006, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $3 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance, short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2006, an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to various financial covenants included in its credit card transaction processing agreement, the revolving credit facility, and outstanding debt agreements. covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings. for the revolving credit facility, the company shall also maintain, at all times, a coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of not less than 1.25 to 1.0. the company met or exceeded the minimum standards set forth in these agreements as of december 31, 2006. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreements, it could reduce the availability of cash under the agreements or increase the costs to keep these agreements intact as written. 31 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors southwest business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high fuel costs and/or significant disruptions in the supply of fuel could adversely affect the company results of operations. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and, therefore, are impacted by changes in the prices of jet fuel. the cost of fuel, which has been at historically high levels over the last three years, is largely unpredictable and has a significant impact on the company results of operations. jet fuel and oil consumed for fiscal 2007 and 2006 represented approximately 28 percent and 26 percent of southwest operating expenses, respectively. in both years, jet fuel costs were the second largest expense incurred by the company, following only salaries, wages, and benefits. these costs contributed to the company decision during 2007 to slow growth and could continue to impact growth decisions. fuel availability, as well as pricing, is also impacted by political and economic factors. the company does not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability; however, it is difficult to predict the future availability of jet fuel due to the following, among other, factors: dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; limited refining capacity; and the possibility of changes in governmental policies on jet fuel production, transportation, and marketing. significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could adversely affect the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 table of contents the company profitability is impacted in part by its ability to pass fuel cost increases through to the consumer in the form of fare increases. due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, the company ability to increase fares is limited, and it is not certain that future fuel cost increases can be covered by increasing fares. fare increases are even more difficult to achieve in uncertain economic environments, as low fares are often used to stimulate demand. from time to time the company enters into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs. changes in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, and the effectiveness of the company fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all significant factors impacting the company results of operations. for more information on southwest fuel hedging arrangements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. southwest business is labor-intensive; southwest could be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group. the airline business is labor intensive, and the company results are subject to variations in labor-related job actions. salaries, wages, and benefits represented 35.4 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2007. in addition, as of december 31, 2007, approximately 82 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. the company ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents are subject to an agreement with the transport workers union of america, afl-cio ( twu ), which becomes amendable on june 30, 2008. the company and twu are in discussions on a new agreement. the company pilots are subject to an agreement with the southwest airlines pilots association ( swapa ), which became amendable during september 2006. the company and swapa are in discussions on a new agreement. although, historically, the company relationships with its employees have been good, the following items could have a significant impact on the company results of operations: results of labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, the impact of work rules, and costs for health care. southwest business is affected by many changing economic conditions and other conditions beyond its control. the company business, and the airline industry in general, is particularly impacted by changes in economic conditions. unfavorable general economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, higher interest rates, housing-related pressures (such as recent issues in the subprime mortgage market), and increased operating costs can reduce consumer spending or cause shifts in spending. a general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and can also impact the company ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel and labor costs. the company business, and the airline industry in general, is also impacted by other conditions that are largely outside of the company control, including, among others: actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures; and weather and natural disasters. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of these factors could adversely affect the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company relies on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company systems could adversely impact the company operations. the company has historically been dependent on automated systems and technology to operate its business, enhance customer service and back office support systems, and increase employee productivity, including the company computerized airline reservation system, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems, website at www.southwest.com , automated boarding 10 table of contents passes system, and its self service kiosks. the company has become increasingly dependent on its systems and technology to maintain and support the growth of its business. therefore, the company ability to expand and update its information technology infrastructure in response to its growth and changing needs is increasingly important to the operation of its business generally and the implementation of its new initiatives. any issues with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of these systems, could harm the company ability to effectively operate its business. in addition, the company growth strategies are dependent on its ability to effectively implement technology advancements. the company inability to successfully implement its revenue initiatives could adversely affect its results of operations. as discussed above, the company has implemented and intends to continue to implement revenue initiatives that are designed to help offset increasing costs. the implementation of the company initiatives has and will involve significant investments by the company of time and money and could be impacted by (i) the company ability to timely implement and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure (as discussed above), and (ii) the extent and timing of the company investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures to develop and implement its initiatives and the company corresponding ability to effectively control operating expenses. because the company has limited experience with some of its strategic initiatives, it cannot ensure that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. the company ability to effectively and timely prioritize and implement its initiatives will also affect when and if they will have a positive impact on the company profitability. the travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the company industry and its business. the attacks of september 11, 2001, materially impacted, and continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for southwest and the airline industry generally. the department of homeland security and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs. substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of september 11 have increased costs to airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air travel. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could have a further significant negative impact on southwest and the airline industry. additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state government. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; increases in taxes; changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; 11 table of contents the adoption of regulations that impact customer service standards, such as security standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is extremely competitive. southwest competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. southwest revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. southwest low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. factors affecting the company ability to control its costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of employee labor contract negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by the company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, ability to access capital or financing at competitive rates in financial markets, and future financing decisions made by the company. in addition, a key contributor to the company low cost structure is its use of a single aircraft type, the boeing 737. although the company is able to purchase some of these aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are direct from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, the company operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the company dependence on a single aircraft type could result in downtime for part or all of the company fleet if mechanical or regulatory issues relating to the boeing 737 aircraft type arise. however, given the company years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type and its longterm relationship with boeing, the company believes the advantages of operating a single fleet type outweigh the risks of its single aircraft strategy. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. cash generated in 2007 and in 2006 was used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash flows used in investing activities in 2007 totaled $1.5 billion, approximately the same as in 2006. investing activities in both years primarily consisted of payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 37 new 737-700 aircraft in 2007 (the remaining two 737-700s added to the fleet during 2007 were leased) versus the purchase of 36 737-700s in 2006. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2007 were also reduced by $198 million related to a change in the balance of the company short-term investments, namely auction rate securities. net cash used in financing activities was $493 million in 2007, primarily from the repurchase of $1.0 billion of common stock. the company repurchased a total of 66 million shares of outstanding common stock during 2007 as a result of buyback programs authorized by the company board of directors. these uses were partially offset by the october 2007 issuance of $500 million pass through certificates consisting of $412 million 6.15% series a certificates and $88 million 6.65% series b certificates. net cash used in financing activities was $801 million in 2006, primarily from the repurchase of $800 million of common stock and the repayment of $607 million in debt. the company repurchased a total of 49 million shares of outstanding common stock during 2006 as a result of three buyback programs authorized by the company board of directors. these uses were partially offset by the issuance of $300 million senior unsecured 5.75% notes in december 2006 and $260 million in proceeds from exercises of employee stock options. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company has various options available to meet its 2008 capital and operating commitments, including cash on hand and short-term investments at december 31, 2007, totaling $2.8 billion, internally generated funds, and a $600 million bank revolving line of credit. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize earnings and supplement cash requirements. the company believes it has access to a wide variety of financing arrangements because of its excellent credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability. the company currently has outstanding shelf registrations for the issuance of up to $540 million in public debt securities and pass through certificates, which it may utilize for aircraft financings or other purposes in the future. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments southwest has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 39 boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2007 37 of which were new aircraft from boeing, and two of which were pre-owned and leased from a third party. as of december 31, 2007, the company had exercised all remaining options for aircraft to be delivered in 2008, and had firm orders for 29 737-700 aircraft in 2008, 20 in 2009, 10 each in 2010-2012, and 29 thereafter. the company also had options for 8 737-700 aircraft in 2009, 24 in 2010, 22 in 2011 and 30 in 2012. southwest also has an additional 54 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft for the years 2008 through 2014. the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from boeing and must be exercised 18 months prior to the contractual delivery date. the leasing of aircraft effectively provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating the aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for leased aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. the company operates 95 leased aircraft, of which 86 are operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit 26 table of contents are an off-balance sheet item, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $211 million at december 31, 2007. the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2007: obligations by period 2009 2011 beyond contractual obligations 2008 - 2010 - 2012 2012 total (in millions) long-term debt(1) $ 27 $ 65 $ 451 $ 1,499 $ 2,042 interest commitments(2) 115 229 208 556 1,108 capital lease commitments(3) 16 32 12 60 operating lease commitments 400 633 430 876 2,339 aircraft purchase commitments(4) 747 839 902 684 3,172 other purchase commitments 60 64 14 138 total contractual obligations $ 1,365 $ 1,862 $ 2,017 $ 3,615 $ 8,859 (1) includes current maturities, but excludes amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements (2) related to fixed-rate debt (3) includes amounts classified as interest (4) firm orders from boeing there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2007. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company revolving credit facility. in january 2004, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company common stock, utilizing present and anticipated proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. this program was completed during first quarter 2005, resulting in the total repurchase of approximately 21 million of the company common shares. in 2006 and 2007, the company board of directors authorized five separate programs for the repurchase of up to a total of $1.8 billion of the company common stock $300 million authorized in january 2006, $300 million authorized in may 2006, $400 million authorized in november 2006, $300 million authorized in march 2007, and $500 million authorized in may 2007. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. these programs, the last of which was completed during third quarter 2007, resulted in the repurchase of a total of approximately 116 million shares. during january 2008, the company board of directors authorized an additional program for the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company common stock. repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. 27 table of contents revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2007 was $931 million, compared to $799 million as of december 31, 2006. estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage , tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and members of the airline industry have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date of travel. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. holding other factors constant, a ten-percent change in the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets for 2007 would have resulted in a $20 million, or .2%, change in passenger revenues recognized for that period. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, and promotional fare activity. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. no material adjustments were recorded for years 2005, 2006, or 2007. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2007, the company had approximately $15.2 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $13.0 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 434 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2007, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 86 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2007, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated residual estimated useful life value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. 28 table of contents subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, southwest has continued to operate all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairments related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices, and accounts for them under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended (sfas 133). see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on sfas 133, the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 requires that all derivatives be reflected at market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2007, the company was a party to over 346 financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for year 2008 and beyond. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2007, was $2.4 billion, compared to $999 million at december 31, 2006. the large increase in fair value was due primarily to the significant increase in energy prices in the second half of 2007, net of the expiration (i.e., settlement) of approximately $727 million in fuel derivative instruments that related to 2007 and net of new derivative instruments the company added for future years. of the remaining $2.4 billion in fair value of fuel hedging financial derivative instruments at december 31, 2007, approximately $1.1 billion is expected to settle, or expire during 2008. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically, as was evident during recent years, based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices, as required by sfas 133. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in recent years, 29 table of contents because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company estimates of the presumed effectiveness of its hedges made at the time the hedges were initially designated have materially differed from actual results, resulting in increased volatility in the company periodic financial results. for example, historical data had been utilized in qualifying unleaded gasoline for sfas 133 hedge accounting under the presumption that derivatives of such commodity would result in effective hedges, as defined. this historical data is updated every quarterly reporting period to ascertain whether sfas 133 hedge accounting is allowed for every commodity the company uses in its hedging program. during 2006, based on these updates, the company in fact lost sfas 133 hedge accounting for all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments, and thus has marked all such derivatives to market value in each subsequent quarterly period since that time, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other gains/losses in the consolidated statement of income. although commodities such as crude oil and heating oil have continued to qualify for hedge accounting in most cases, there have been instances in which the company has also lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for these commodities. in these instances, the company has also marked such derivatives to market value with changes reflected in the income statement each reporting period. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that crude oil and heating oil in most cases still qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. if recent volatility in these commodity markets continues for an extended period of time or worsens in the near future, the company could lose hedge accounting altogether for all crude oil and heating oil derivatives, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine how they are accounted for under sfas 133. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result, as defined by sfas 133. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other gains and losses in the income statement in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the magnitude of the current fair market value of the company fuel derivatives and the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the significant increase in the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during recent periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for protection. the number of instances in which the company has discontinued hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, has increased recently, primarily due to these reasons. in these cases, the company has determined the hedges will not regain effectiveness in the time period remaining until settlement and therefore must discontinue special hedge accounting, as defined by sfas 133. when this happens, any changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are marked to market through earnings in the period of change. as the fair value of the company hedge positions can fluctuate significantly in amount from period to period, it is probable there will be continued variability recorded in the income statement and that the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in future periods will be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products are leveraged over large dollar volumes. sfas 133 is a complex accounting standard with stringent requirements, including the documentation of a company hedging strategy, statistical analysis to qualify a commodity for hedge accounting both on a historical and a prospective basis, and strict contemporaneous 30 table of contents documentation that is required at the time each hedge is designated by the company. as required by sfas 133, the company assesses the effectiveness of each of its individual hedges on a quarterly basis. the company also examines the effectiveness of its entire hedging program on a quarterly basis utilizing statistical analysis. this analysis involves utilizing regression and other statistical analyses that compare changes in the price of jet fuel to changes in the prices of the commodities used for hedging purposes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges, as required by sfas 133. during first quarter 2006, the company did revise its method for forecasting these future cash flows. prior to 2006, the company had estimated future cash flows using actual market forward prices of a single like commodity and adjusting for historical differences from the company actual jet fuel purchase prices. the company implemented an improved model for forecasting forward jet fuel prices during 2006, due to the fact that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. in accordance with sfas 133, the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this improved methodology for estimating future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) was applied prospectively, in accordance with the company interpretation of sfas 133. the company did not, however, change its method for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness. as a result of this new method for forecasting future jet fuel prices, the company believes its hedges are more likely to be effective over the long-term. the company also utilizes financial derivative instruments in the form of interest rate swap agreements. the primary objective for the company use of interest rate hedges is to reduce the volatility of net interest income by better matching the repricing of its assets and liabilities. the company currently holds interest rate swap agreements related to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027. the interest rate swaps associated with the $300 million 5.125% notes and $100 million 7.375% debentures were entered into during 2007. the floating rate paid under the swap associated with the $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012 is set in arrears. the company pays the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus a margin every six months and receives 6.5 percent every six months on a notional amount of $385 million until 2012. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2007 is estimated to be 7.31 percent based on actual and forward rates at december 31, 2007. the floating rate for the swap agreement relating to its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014 is set at the beginning of each six month period. under this agreement, the company pays libor plus a margin every six months and receives 5.25 percent every six months on a notional amount of $350 million until 2014. the average floating rate paid under this agreement during 2007 was 6.02 percent. for both the swap agreements associated with the $300 million 5.125% notes and $100 million 7.375% debentures, the company pays the libor plus a margin every six months on the notional amount of the debt, and receives the fixed stated rate of the notes or debentures every six months until the date the notes or debentures become due. the average floating rate paid during 2007 under the agreement associated with the $300 million 5.125% notes due 2016 was 4.64 percent. the average floating rate paid during 2007 under the agreement associated with the $100 million 7.375% debentures due 2027 was 6.73 percent. the company interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges, as defined by sfas 133. in addition, these interest rate swap agreements qualify for the shortcut method of accounting for hedges, as defined by sfas 133. under the shortcut method, the hedges are assumed to be perfectly effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted regularly, is recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as necessary, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the long-term debt. the total fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, excluding accrued interest, at december 31, 2007, was an asset of approximately $16 million. the total fair value of the swap agreements held at december 31, 2006, was a liability of $30 million. the long-term portion of these amounts is recorded in other deferred liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet for each respective year. in accordance with fair value hedging, the offsetting entry is an adjustment to decrease the carrying value of long-term debt. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 31 table of contents the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices, would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. share-based compensation the company has share-based compensation plans covering the majority of its employee groups, including plans adopted via collective bargaining, a plan covering the company board of directors, and plans related to employment contracts with the executive chairman of the company. prior to january 1, 2006, the company accounted for stock-based compensation utilizing the intrinsic value method in accordance with the provisions of accounting principles board opinion no. 25 (apb 25), accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations. accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for fixed option plans because the exercise prices of employee stock options equaled or exceeded the market prices of the underlying stock on the dates of grant. however, prior to adoption of sfas 123r, share-based compensation had been included in pro forma disclosures in the financial statement footnotes for periods prior to 2006. effective january 1, 2006, the company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of sfas no. 123r, share-based payment using the modified retrospective transition method. among other items, sfas 123r eliminates the use of apb 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and requires companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. under the modified retrospective method, compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date, based on the requirements of sfas 123r for all share-based payments granted after that date, and based on the requirements of sfas 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of sfas 123r. in addition, results for prior periods were retroactively adjusted utilizing the pro forma disclosures in those prior financial statements. as part of this revision, the company recorded cumulative share-based compensation expense of $409 million for the period 1995-2005, resulting in a reduction to retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005. this adjustment, along with the creation of a net deferred income tax asset in the amount of $130 million, resulted in an offsetting increase to capital in excess of par value in the amount of $539 million in the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005. the deferred tax asset represents the portion of the cumulative expense related to stock options that will result in a future tax deduction. the company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant utilizing a modified black-scholes option pricing model. the black-scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of short-term traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. however, certain assumptions used in the black-scholes model, such as expected term, can be adjusted to incorporate the unique characteristics of the company stock option awards. option valuation models require the input of somewhat subjective assumptions including expected stock price volatility and expected term. for 2006 and 2007, the company has relied on observations of historical volatility trends, implied future volatility observations as determined by independent third parties, and implied volatility from traded options on the company stock. for both 2007 and 2006 stock option grants, the company utilized expected volatility based on the expected life of the option, but within a range of 24 percent to 27 percent. prior to 2005, the company relied exclusively on historical volatility as an input for determining the estimated fair value of stock options. in determining the expected term of the option grants, the company has observed the actual terms of prior grants with similar characteristics, the actual vesting schedule of the grant, and assessed the expected risk tolerance of different optionee groups. other assumptions required for estimating fair value with the black-scholes model are the expected risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield of the company stock. the risk-free interest rates used were actual u.s. treasury zero-coupon rates for bonds matching the expected term of the option on the date of grant. the expected dividend yield of the company common stock over the expected term of the option on the date of grant was estimated based on the company current dividend yield, and adjusted for anticipated future changes. vesting terms for the company stock option plans differ based on the type of grant made and the group to which the options are granted. for grants made to employees under collective bargaining plans, vesting has ranged in length from immediate vesting to vesting periods in accordance with the period covered by the respective collective bargaining agreement. for other employee plans, options generally vest and become fully exercisable over three, five, or ten years of continued 32 table of contents employment, depending upon the grant type. for grants in any of the company plans that are subject to graded vesting over a service period, the company recognizes expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. none of the company grants include performance-based or market-based vesting conditions, as defined. as of december 31, 2007, the company had $37 million in remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to past grants of stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.25 years. the total recognition period for the remaining unrecognized compensation cost was approximately eight years; however, the majority of this cost will be recognized over the next two years, in accordance with vesting provisions. the majority of the $37 million in share-based compensation expense reflected in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended december 31, 2007, was related to options granted prior to the adoption of sfas 123r. based on employee stock options expected to vest during 2008, and the company expectation of future grants, the company expects the expense related to share-based compensation to once again decrease during 2008 compared to 2007 expense. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. recent accounting developments in september 2006, the fasb issued statement no. 157, fair value measurements , (sfas 157). sfas 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. the company is subject to the provisions of sfas 157 beginning january 1, 2008. the company has not yet determined whether sfas 157 will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow. however, the company believes it will likely be required to provide additional disclosures as part of future financial statements, beginning with first quarter 2008. in february 2007, the fasb issued statement no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities (statement 159). statement 159 allows entities the option to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value as of specified dates. such election, which may be applied on an instrument by instrument basis, is typically irrevocable once elected. statement 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. the company does not believe statement 159 will result in a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk southwest has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, and has commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. southwest has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 95 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.5 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2008. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $15 million per year, excluding any impact of the company derivative instruments. the fair values of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2007, were net assets of $2.4 billion. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $1.1 billion, is classified as fuel derivative contracts in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $1.3 billion, is included in other assets. 33 table of contents the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten-percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2007, prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by up to $658 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2007, levels, except underlying futures prices. outstanding financial derivative instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. however, the company does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet its obligations. the credit exposure related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. at december 31, 2007, the company had agreements with nine counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. at december 31, 2007, the company held $2.0 billion in cash collateral deposits under these bilateral collateral provisions. these collateral deposits serve to decrease, but not totally eliminate, the credit risk associated with the company hedging program. the deposits are included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. financial market risk the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and an a credit rating on its senior unsecured fixed-rate debt with standard poor and fitch ratings agencies, and a baa1 credit rating with moody rating agency as of december 31, 2007. in january 2008, fitch announced a cut in the company senior unsecured debt rating to a . the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, the $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. excluding the notes or debentures that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company only fixed-rate senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2007 were its $300 million notes due 2016. these senior unsecured notes have a fixed-rate of 5.75 percent, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the company outstanding $500 million eetcs, which are secured by 16 boeing 737-700 aircraft, had an effective fixed-rate of 6.24 percent. the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $1.3 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 6.1 years at floating rates averaging 5.68 percent for the twelve months ended december 31, 2007. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 6.5 percent and 10.3 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2007. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $2.2 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $566 million, at december 31, 2007. however, the company generally does not retain the interest earnings on the $2.0 billion in cash collateral deposits from counterparties associated with the company fuel derivative instruments. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, auction rate securities, and other highly rated financial instruments. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest 34 table of contents rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2007, would not have a material affect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits), and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2007, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $3 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding cash collateral deposits), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2007, an increase in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to various financial covenants included in its credit card transaction processing agreement, the revolving credit facility, and outstanding debt agreements. covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings. for the revolving credit facility, the company must also maintain, at all times, a coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of not less than 1.00 to 1.25. the company met or exceeded the minimum standards set forth in these agreements as of december 31, 2007. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreements, it could reduce the availability of cash under the agreements or increase the costs to keep these agreements intact as written. 35 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors southwest business is heavily impacted by the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued volatility in fuel costs and/or significant disruptions in the supply of fuel could adversely affect southwest results of operations. airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and can therefore be significantly impacted by changes in the prices of jet fuel. the cost of jet fuel, which generally has been at historically high levels over the last three years, is largely unpredictable, as is evidenced by the recent plunge in market jet fuel prices. even a small change in fuel prices, with no other changes, can drive profitability sharply in one direction or the other. jet fuel and oil consumed for fiscal 2008 and 2007 represented approximately 35 percent and 30 percent of 10 table of contents southwest operating expenses, respectively, and, for 2008, constituted the largest expense incurred by southwest. as a result, fuel costs have factored significantly into southwest growth decisions. fuel availability can also affect fuel prices and is impacted by political and economic factors beyond southwest control. therefore, although southwest does not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, future availability is difficult to predict. fuel availability can be impacted by factors such as dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas, limited refining capacity, and the possibility of changes in governmental policies on jet fuel production, transportation, and marketing. significant disruptions in the supply of jet fuel could adversely affect southwest results of operations. southwest profitability is impacted in part by its ability to adjust fares in reaction to fuel price volatility. southwest ability to increase fares can be limited by factors such as southwest low fares reputation, the percentage of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, and the competitive nature of the airline industry generally. fare increases are even more difficult to achieve in uncertain economic environments, as low fares are often used to stimulate demand. additionally, southwest has historically entered into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs. these contracts produced cash settlement gains of $1.3 billion (on a cash basis, before profitsharing and income taxes) for the full year 2008. in response to the recent drop in energy prices, southwest significantly reduced its net fuel hedge position in place for 2009 and beyond and is therefore less protected against future increases. changes in southwest overall fuel hedging strategy, the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, and the effectiveness of southwest fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all significant factors impacting southwest results of operations. southwest fuel hedging arrangements are discussed in more detail under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic condition; continued negative economic conditions would likely continue to negatively impact southwest results of operations and its ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. southwest operations and the airline industry in general are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. unfavorable general economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, a constrained credit market, housing-related pressures, and increased business operating costs can reduce spending for both leisure and business travel. unfavorable economic conditions can also impact southwest ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. demand for air travel waned during the fourth quarter of 2008, which southwest believes can be primarily attributed to the crisis experienced in worldwide credit markets and the domestic recessionary environment that became evident during the year. therefore, a continued economic recessionary environment would likely continue to negatively impact southwest results of operations. southwest continues to be cautious of current domestic economic conditions, as recessionary fears have continued to proliferate. factors such as continued unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or continued instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could trigger credit rating provisions in southwest credit card transaction processing agreements, outstanding debt agreements, and some hedging counterparty agreements (as discussed in more detail in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ). these factors could also negatively impact (a) southwest ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (b) southwest liquidity generally, and (c) the availability and cost of insurance. southwest business is labor intensive; southwest could be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives. while the airline business is labor intensive and the company results are subject to variations in labor-related job actions, southwest has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employee representatives. salaries, wages, 11 table of contents and benefits represented 32 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2008. in addition, as of december 31, 2008, approximately 77 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. as discussed above in item 1. business employees, the company is currently in discussions with several employee representatives. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. southwest inability to timely and effectively implement its revenue initiatives could adversely affect its results of operations. southwest has implemented and intends to continue to implement revenue initiatives that are designed to help offset increasing costs and improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be impacted by (i) southwest ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the timing of southwest investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures for these purposes, while balancing the need to effectively control operating expenses; and (iii) southwest dependence on third parties to assist with implementation. because southwest has limited experience with some of its strategic initiatives, it cannot ensure the timing of their implementation or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. southwest is increasingly reliant on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in southwest information systems could adversely impact the company operations. southwest operations have become increasingly dependant on the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for its point of sale, ticketing, revenue accounting, payroll, and financial reporting areas. systems and technology are also crucial to the timely and effective implementation of southwest revenue initiatives. as discussed above under business operating strategies and marketing management information systems, southwest has multiple technology projects underway, many of which are reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion. any issues with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of these systems, could materially impact southwest ability to effectively operate its business. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control. southwest business and the airline industry in general are also impacted by other conditions that are largely outside of southwest control, including, among others: actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures; and weather and natural disasters. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of these factors could adversely affect southwest results of operations. in addition, when the airline industry shrinks, as it did during 2008, airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase southwest costs. the airline industry faces on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the company industry and its business. the attacks of september 11, 2001, and resulting aftermath materially impacted air travel and 12 table of contents the results of operations for southwest and the airline industry generally. the department of homeland security and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs. substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of september 11 have increased costs to airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air travel. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could have a further significant negative impact on southwest and the airline industry. additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state government. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; increases in taxes; changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; the adoption of statutes or regulations that impact customer service standards, including security standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is extremely competitive. southwest competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. southwest revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. southwest low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. southwest low cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages; however, it has limited control over many of its fixed costs. for example, southwest ability to adjust compensation and benefit costs is limited by the terms of its collective bargaining agreements. other factors that can impact southwest ability to control costs include the price and availability of jet fuel, aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, and ability to access capital or financing at competitive rates. given, in particular, the recent volatility in fuel prices and the number of pending labor negotiations, southwest cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain its current level of low cost advantage. in addition, a key contributor to southwest low cost structure is its use of a single aircraft type, the boeing 737. although southwest is able to purchase some of these aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are direct from boeing. therefore, if 13 table of contents southwest were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, southwest operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, southwest dependence on a single aircraft type could result in downtime for part or all of its fleet if mechanical or regulatory issues relating to the boeing 737 aircraft type were to arise. however, given the company years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type and its longterm relationship with boeing, the company believes the advantages of operating a single fleet type outweigh the risks of its single aircraft strategy. as discussed above under item 1. business-insurance, southwest carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, southwest could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, in the event of an accident involving southwest aircraft, southwest could be responsible for costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of southwest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ). these factors could also negatively impact (a) southwest ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (b) southwest liquidity generally, and (c) the availability and cost of insurance. southwest business is labor intensive; southwest could be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives. while the airline business is labor intensive and the company results are subject to variations in labor-related job actions, southwest has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employee representatives. salaries, wages, 11 table of contents and benefits represented 32 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2008. in addition, as of december 31, 2008, approximately 77 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. as discussed above in item 1. business employees, the company is currently in discussions with several employee representatives. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. southwest inability to timely and effectively implement its revenue initiatives could adversely affect its results of operations. southwest has implemented and intends to continue to implement revenue initiatives that are designed to help offset increasing costs and improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be impacted by (i) southwest ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the timing of southwest investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures for these purposes, while balancing the need to effectively control operating expenses; and (iii) southwest dependence on third parties to assist with implementation. because southwest has limited experience with some of its strategic initiatives, it cannot ensure the timing of their implementation or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. southwest is increasingly reliant on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in southwest information systems could adversely impact the company operations. southwest operations have become increasingly dependant on the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for its point of sale, ticketing, revenue accounting, payroll, and financial reporting areas. systems and technology are also crucial to the timely and effective implementation of southwest revenue initiatives. as discussed above under business operating strategies and marketing management information systems, southwest has multiple technology projects underway, many of which are reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion. any issues with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of these systems, could materially impact southwest ability to effectively operate its business. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control. southwest business and the airline industry in general are also impacted by other conditions that are largely outside of southwest control, including, among others: actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures; and weather and natural disasters. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of these factors could adversely affect southwest results of operations. in addition, when the airline industry shrinks, as it did during 2008, airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase southwest costs. the airline industry faces on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the company industry and its business. the attacks of september 11, 2001, and resulting aftermath materially impacted air travel and 12 table of contents the results of operations for southwest and the airline industry generally. the department of homeland security and the tsa have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs. substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of september 11 have increased costs to airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air travel. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could have a further significant negative impact on southwest and the airline industry. additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state government. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; increases in taxes; changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; the adoption of statutes or regulations that impact customer service standards, including security standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is extremely competitive. southwest competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. southwest revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. southwest low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. southwest low cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages; however, it has limited control over many of its fixed costs. for example, southwest ability to adjust compensation and benefit costs is limited by the terms of its collective bargaining agreements. other factors that can impact southwest ability to control costs include the price and availability of jet fuel, aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, and ability to access capital or financing at competitive rates. given, in particular, the recent volatility in fuel prices and the number of pending labor negotiations, southwest cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain its current level of low cost advantage. in addition, a key contributor to southwest low cost structure is its use of a single aircraft type, the boeing 737. although southwest is able to purchase some of these aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are direct from boeing. therefore, if 13 table of contents southwest were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, southwest operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, southwest dependence on a single aircraft type could result in downtime for part or all of its fleet if mechanical or regulatory issues relating to the boeing 737 aircraft type were to arise. however, given the company years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type and its longterm relationship with boeing, the company believes the advantages of operating a single fleet type outweigh the risks of its single aircraft strategy. as discussed above under item 1. business-insurance, southwest carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, southwest could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, in the event of an accident involving southwest aircraft, southwest could be responsible for costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of southwest. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties aircraft southwest operated a total of 537 boeing 737 aircraft as of december 31, 2008, of which 82 and 9 were under operating and capital leases, respectively. the remaining 446 aircraft were owned. the following table details information on the 537 aircraft in the company fleet as of december 31, 2008: 737 type seats average age (yrs) number of aircraft number owned number leased -300 137 17.4 185 112 73 -500 122 17.7 25 16 9 -700 137 5.3 327 318 9 totals 10.1 537 446 91 in total, at january 22, 2009, the company had firm orders, options and purchase rights for the purchase of boeing 737 aircraft as follows: firm orders, options and purchase rights for boeing 737-700 aircraft the boeing company delivery year firm orders options purchase rights total 2009 13 13 2010 10 10 2011 10 10 20 2012 13 10 23 2013 19 4 23 2014 13 7 20 2015 14 3 17 2016 12 11 23 2017 17 17 through 2018 54 54 total 104 62 54 220 14 table of contents ground facilities and services southwest leases terminal passenger service facilities at each of the airports it serves, to which it has made various leasehold improvements. the company leases the land and structures on a long-term basis for its maintenance centers (located at dallas love field, houston hobby, phoenix sky harbor, and chicago midway), its flight training center at dallas love field (which houses seven 737 simulators), and its corporate headquarters, also located at dallas love field. during 2008, the city of dallas approved the love field modernization program, an estimated $519 million project to provide dallas love field with modern, convenient facilities. southwest is managing the project, and construction is expected to commence during the summer of 2009, with completion scheduled for october 2014. as of december 31, 2008, the company operated six reservation centers. the reservation centers located in chicago, albuquerque, and oklahoma city occupy leased space. the company owns its houston, phoenix, and san antonio reservation centers. the company performs substantially all line maintenance on its aircraft and provides ground support services at most of the airports it serves. however, the company has arrangements with certain aircraft maintenance firms for major component inspections and repairs for its airframes and engines, which comprise the majority of the company annual aircraft maintenance costs. item 3. legal proceedings on march 6, 2008, the faa notified southwest that it was seeking to fine southwest approximately $10 million in connection with an incident concerning the company potential non-compliance with an airworthiness directive. the company is currently in settlement discussions with the faa. in connection with the above incident, during the first quarter and early second quarter of 2008, the company was named as a defendant in two putative class actions on behalf of persons who purchased air travel from the company while the company was allegedly in violation of faa safety regulations. claims alleged by the plaintiffs in these two putative class actions include breach of contract, breach of warranty, fraud/misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, and negligent and reckless operation of an aircraft. the company believes that the class action lawsuits are without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself. also in connection with the above incident, during the first quarter and early second quarter of 2008, the company received four letters from shareholders demanding the company commence an action on behalf of the company against members of its board of directors and any other allegedly culpable parties for damages resulting from an alleged breach of fiduciary duties owed by them to the company. in august 2008, carbon county employees retirement system and mark cristello filed a related shareholder derivative action in texas state court naming certain directors and officers of the company as individual defendants and the company as a nominal defendant. the derivative action claims breach of fiduciary duty and seeks recovery by the company of alleged monetary damages sustained as a result of the purported breach of fiduciary duty, as well as costs of the action. a special committee appointed by the independent directors of the company is currently evaluating the shareholder demands. the company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, including, but not limited to, examinations by the internal revenue service (irs). the irs regularly examines the company federal income tax returns and, in the course of those examinations, proposes adjustments to the company federal income tax liability reported on such returns. it is the company practice to vigorously contest those proposed adjustments that it deems lacking merit. the company management does not expect the outcome in any of its currently ongoing legal proceedings or the outcome of any proposed adjustments presented to date by the irs, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none to be reported. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following information regarding the company executive officers is as of january 1, 2009. name position age gary c. kelly chairman of the board, president, &amp; chief executive officer 53 robert e. jordan executive vice president strategy &amp; planning 48 ron ricks executive vice president corporate services &amp; corporate secretary 59 michael g. van de ven executive vice president &amp; chief operating officer 47 davis s. ridley senior vice president marketing &amp; revenue management 55 laura h. wright senior vice president finance &amp; chief financial officer 48 set forth below is a description of the background of each of southwest executive officers. gary c. kelly has served as southwest chairman of the board since may 2008, as its president since july 2008, and as its chief executive officer since july 2004. mr. kelly also served as southwest executive vice president &amp; chief financial officer from june 2001 to july 2004 and as its vice president finance &amp; chief financial officer from 1989 to 2001. mr. kelly joined southwest in 1986 as its controller. robert e. jordan has served as southwest executive vice president strategy &amp; planning since may 2008. mr. jordan also served as southwest executive vice president strategy &amp; technology from september 2006 to may 2008, senior vice president enterprise spend management from august 2004 to september 2006, and vice president technology from october 2002 to august 2004. ron ricks has served as southwest executive vice president corporate services &amp; corporate secretary since may 2008. mr. ricks also served as southwest executive vice president law, airports, &amp; public affairs from september 2006 to may 2008 and senior vice president law, airports, &amp; public affairs from august 2004 until september 2006. prior to 2004, mr. ricks served as vice president governmental affairs for southwest. michael g. van de ven has served as southwest executive vice president &amp; chief operating officer since may 2008. mr. van de ven also served as southwest chief of operations from september 2006 to may 2008, executive vice president aircraft operations from november 2005 through august 2006, senior vice president planning from august 2004 to november 2005, and vice president financial planning &amp; analysis from june 2001 to august 2004. davis s. ridley has served as southwest senior vice president marketing &amp; revenue management since may 2008. mr. ridley also served as southwest senior vice president marketing from november 2007 to may 2008. prior to such time, mr. ridley served as southwest senior vice president people &amp; leadership development from august 2004 to january 2006 and as its vice president ground operations from may 1998 to august 2004. mr. ridley served as a consultant for the company from january 2006 to november 2007. laura h. wright has served as southwest senior vice president finance &amp; chief financial officer since july 2004. ms. wright also served as southwest vice president finance &amp; treasurer from june 2001 to july 2004 and as its treasurer from august 1998 to june 2001. 16 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters, and issuer purchases of equity securities southwest common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange and is traded under the symbol luv. the following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of southwest common stock, as reported on the nyse composite tape, and the cash dividends per share paid on southwest common stock. period dividend high low 2008 1st quarter $ 0.00450 $ 13.10 $ 11.02 2nd quarter 0.00450 14.89 11.75 3rd quarter 0.00450 16.77 12.68 4th quarter 0.00450 14.97 7.05 2007 1st quarter $ 0.00450 $ 16.58 $ 14.50 2nd quarter 0.00450 15.90 14.03 3rd quarter 0.00450 16.96 14.21 4th quarter 0.00450 15.06 12.12 southwest currently intends to continue paying quarterly dividends for the foreseeable future; however, southwest board of directors may change the timing, amount, and payment of dividends on the basis of results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the board. as of january 28, 2009, there were 10,624 holders of record of southwest common stock. 17 table of contents stock performance graph the following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or filed with the securities and exchange commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the securities act of 1933 or securities exchange act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that southwest specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on southwest common stock over the five-year period ended december 31, 2008, with the cumulative total return during such period of the standard and poor 500 stock index and the amex airline index. the comparison assumes $100 was invested on december 31, 2003, in southwest common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends. the stock performance shown on the graph below represents historical stock performance and is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 southwest airlines co. $ 100 $ 101 $ 102 $ 95 $ 76 $ 54 s&amp;p 500 $ 100 $ 111 $ 116 $ 134 $ 142 $ 90 amex airline $ 100 $ 98 $ 89 $ 95 $ 56 $ 40 18 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following financial information for the five years ended december 31, 2008, has been derived from the company consolidated financial statements. this information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. year ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) financial data: operating revenues $ 11,023 $ 9,861 $ 9,086 $ 7,584 $ 6,530 operating expenses 10,574 9,070 8,152 6,859 6,126 operating income 449 791 934 725 404 other expenses (income) net 171 (267 ) 144 (54 ) 65 income before taxes 278 1,058 790 779 339 provision for income taxes 100 413 291 295 124 net income $ 178 $ 645 $ 499 $ 484 $ 215 net income per share, basic $ .24 $ .85 $ .63 $ .61 $ .27 net income per share, diluted $ .24 $ .84 $ .61 $ .60 $ .27 cash dividends per common share $ .0180 $ .0180 $ .0180 $ .0180 $ .0180 total assets at period-end $ 14,308 $ 16,772 $ 13,460 $ 14,003 $ 11,137 long-term obligations at period-end $ 3,498 $ 2,050 $ 1,567 $ 1,394 $ 1,700 stockholders equity at period-end $ 4,953 $ 6,941 $ 6,449 $ 6,675 $ 5,527 operating data: revenue passengers carried 88,529,234 88,713,472 83,814,823 77,693,875 70,902,773 enplaned passengers 101,920,598 101,910,809 96,276,907 88,379,900 81,066,038 revenue passenger miles (rpms) (000s) 73,491,687 72,318,812 67,691,289 60,223,100 53,418,353 available seat miles (asms) (000s) 103,271,343 99,635,967 92,663,023 85,172,795 76,861,296 load factor(1) 71.2 % 72.6 % 73.1 % 70.7 % 69.5 % average length of passenger haul (miles) 830 815 808 775 753 average aircraft stage length (miles) 636 629 622 607 576 trips flown 1,191,151 1,160,699 1,092,331 1,028,639 981,591 average passenger fare $ 119.16 $ 106.60 $ 104.40 $ 93.68 $ 88.57 passenger revenue yield per rpm 14.35 13.08 12.93 12.09 11.76 operating revenue yield per asm 10.67 9.90 9.81 8.90 8.50 operating expenses per asm 10.24 9.10 8.80 8.05 7.97 fuel costs per gallon, including taxes (average)(2) $ 2.44 $ 1.80 $ 1.64 $ 1.13 $ 0.92 fuel consumed, in gallons (millions) 1,511 1,489 1,389 1,287 1,201 fulltime equivalent employees at period-end 35,499 34,378 32,664 31,729 31,011 size of fleet at period-end(3) 537 520 481 445 417 (1) revenue passenger miles divided by available seat miles (2) prior year amounts have been restated to include fuel taxes (3) includes leased aircraft 19 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations year in review for the 36 th consecutive year, the company reported a net profit, earning $178 million ($.24 per share, diluted) in 2008. in addition, the company recorded operating profits in all four quarters of 2008, as it has now done in 71 consecutive quarters dating back to the second quarter of 1991. given the significance of events that took place during 2008, the company challenge to continue these streaks was unprecedented in recent history. demand for air travel, especially for the low fares offered by the company, was strong during the first half of 2008 and through the summer months. however, demand for air travel waned, especially during fourth quarter 2008, which the company believes was a result of the crisis experienced in worldwide credit markets and the domestic recessionary environment that became evident during the year. the company was able to gradually raise fares throughout most of the year to combat an enormous increase in fuel prices; however, during the fourth quarter, the company offered more discounted fares in order to stimulate demand as the number of people choosing to travel by air declined versus the prior year. the company ability to raise fares during 2008 (as well as to keep prior fare increases in place) was due in part to competitor capacity reductions in certain of the company markets especially beginning in september 2008, but was also aided by several company initiatives including: a slowing of internal capacity growth at times during 2008; optimizing the flight schedule to eliminate unproductive and less popular flights and reallocating capacity to fund market growth opportunities such as denver, and the upcoming addition of the company newest city, minneapolis-st. paul (beginning service in march 2009); enhancement of revenue management technologies, processes, and techniques; and aggressive promotion of the company no hidden fees, low fare brand. in addition to having a significant impact on the entire u.s. economy, energy and fuel prices were again a major story for airlines during 2008. after beginning the year at approximately $100 per barrel, the price of crude oil skyrocketed to over $145 in july 2008. this caused the company, as well as all major u.s. airlines, to reconsider growth and capacity plans for the near future, as the devastating impact of these fuel prices was evident in the financial results of all domestic airlines. the summer spike in oil prices, as well as other clearly evident deteriorating economic conditions that followed, caused the company to modify its growth and to plan for an expected decrease in demand for air travel. even with fuel derivative instruments in place for approximately 78 percent of the company fuel consumption during 2008, the company fuel and oil expense increased $1.0 billion versus 2007. the fuel derivative instruments the company had in place for 2008 resulted in settlement gains of $1.3 billion (on a cash basis, before profitsharing and income taxes), which was an increase of $566 million compared to the fuel derivative cash settlement gains the company received during 2007. as a result of the rapid collapse in energy prices during fourth quarter 2008, the company has effectively reduced its net fuel hedge position in place for the years from 2009 through 2013 to approximately ten percent of its anticipated fuel consumption in each of those years. due to the manner in which the company reduced its fuel hedge for these future years (primarily by selling swap instruments, which in most cases were sold at lower prices than the positions that were previously purchased), and disregarding any future potential activity involving fuel derivative instruments, the company has fixed some losses associated with these instruments and expects to pay higher than market prices for fuel for these periods. the market value (as of december 31, 2008) of the company net fuel derivative contracts for 2009 through 2013 reflects a net liability of approximately $992 million. based on this liability at december 31, 2008 (and assuming no change to the fuel hedge portfolio), the company jet fuel costs per gallon would exceed market (or unhedged) prices by approximately $.16 to $.17 in each year from 2009 to 2011, $.10 in 2012, and $.08 in 2013. these estimates are based on expected future cash settlements from fuel derivatives, but exclude any statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended (sfas 133) impact associated with the ineffectiveness of fuel hedges or fuel derivatives that are marked to market value because they do not qualify for special hedge accounting. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 20 table of contents although the company 2008 net income of $178 million ($.24 per share, diluted) declined compared to 2007 net income of $645 million ($.84 per share, diluted), much of the decline was driven by a fluctuation in certain gains and losses, recorded in accordance with sfas 133, that relate to fuel derivatives expiring in future periods. these instruments contributed net losses totaling $19 million in 2008, but had resulted in net gains totaling $360 million for 2007. operating income for 2008 was $449 million, a 43.2 percent decrease compared to 2007. the lower 2008 operating income primarily was due to the 35.6 percent increase in the company average fuel cost per gallon, including hedging, which counteracted an 11.8 percent increase in operating revenues. looking ahead to 2009, the company remains cautious about demand for air travel given current domestic economic conditions. however, the rapid decline in fuel prices combined with the announced cutbacks in domestic capacity by major u.s. airlines, have thus far mitigated much of the impact of fewer people flying. the company expects its net available seat mile (asm) capacity in first quarter 2009 to be approximately four to five percent lower than first quarter 2008. however, at this same time, competitors have reduced their seats by approximately 15 percent in certain markets where they compete with the company. the company has announced it will start service to minneapolis-st. paul, minnesota, beginning in march 2009, representing the 65 th city and 33 rd state to which the company flies. in addition, the company has received initial approval to acquire 14 take-off and landing slots at new york laguardia airport from the former ata airlines, inc., which filed for bankruptcy protection in april 2008. pending final approval by the bankruptcy court and closing of the transaction, which is currently expected to be in march 2009, the company could begin flying up to seven daily roundtrips to laguardia as early as summer 2009. the company also announced its intention to enter into codeshare agreements with two different airlines canadian carrier westjet and mexican carrier volaris. the company and westjet plan to announce codeshare flight schedules and additional features regarding the relationship by late 2009. the company and volaris plan to announce codeshare flight schedules and additional features regarding the relationship by early 2010. certain details of these alliances are subject to approvals by both the u.s. and canadian/mexican governments. the company is also continuing to consider codeshare opportunities with other carriers, both domestic and international. for the year 2009, the company currently plans to reduce its fleet by a net two aircraft. the company plans to add 13 new 737-700 aircraft from boeing, and plans to return from lease or retire a total of fifteen aircraft. based on current plans, the company fleet is scheduled to total 535 737s by the end of 2009. results of operations 2008 compared with 2007 the company net income of $178 million ($.24 per share, diluted) in 2008 represented a decrease of $467 million, or 72.4 percent, compared to its 2007 net income of $645 million ($.84 per share, diluted). the majority of the decline in net income was due to the fluctuation of certain gains and losses, recorded in accordance with sfas 133. these included adjustments impacting earnings through the recording of gains and/or losses in 2008 and 2007 associated with fuel derivatives expiring in future periods, and settlement/expiration of fuel derivative instruments for cash in 2008 or 2007, but for which gains and/or losses had been recorded in earnings in a prior period. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. both of these types of adjustments are related to the ineffectiveness of hedges and the loss of hedge accounting for certain fuel derivatives. adjustments associated with fuel derivative instruments and sfas 133 included $19 million in net losses for 2008, and $360 million in net gains for 2007. these are included in other (gains) losses, net, which is below the operating income line, in both periods. due to the fact that items associated with sfas 133 have resulted in large adjustments to other (gains) losses, net, the company believes operating income provides a better indication of the company financial performance for both 2008 and 2007 than does net income. the company 2008 operating income was $449 million, a decrease of $342 million, or 43.2 percent, compared to 2007. the majority of this decrease in 2008 was due to the substantial increase in fuel expense, despite the fact that the company once again benefited tremendously from its fuel hedging program. entering 2008, the company had instruments in place for over 75 percent of its anticipated fuel consumption needs at an average crude oil equivalent price of $51 per 21 table of contents barrel. even with this protection, however, the company average jet fuel cost per gallon increased from $1.80 in 2007 to $2.44 in 2008. operating revenues consolidated operating revenues increased $1.2 billion, or 11.8 percent, primarily due to a $1.1 billion, or 11.5 percent, increase in passenger revenues. despite carrying approximately the same number of passengers as 2007, the company was able to generate an 11.8 percent increase in average fares. the company raised fares several times during 2008 in an attempt to keep up with rapidly increasing jet fuel prices. this strategy was aided by the company own slowdown in growth as well as significant capacity reductions by competitors in certain of the company markets. the company purchased a total of 26 new boeing 737-700 aircraft during 2008, and returned nine 737-300s from lease, resulting in the net addition of 17 aircraft for the year. this fleet growth enabled the company to fly 3.6 percent more asms in 2008 versus the prior year. however, as a result of higher fares and general economic conditions, revenue passenger miles (rpms) increased only 1.6 percent, resulting in a load factor decrease of 1.4 points to 71.2 percent. as a result of the company management of fares, passenger revenue yield per rpm (passenger revenues divided by rpms) increased 9.7 percent compared to 2007. unit revenue (operating revenues divided by asms) also increased 7.8 percent compared to 2007 levels, primarily as a result of the higher rpm yield. based on weak economic conditions, which are expected to persist at least in the short term, the company had previously made the decision to further reduce its future capacity. the company expects a four to five percent reduction in asms in first quarter 2009 compared to first quarter 2008 and approximately a four percent year-over-year decline in asms for full year 2009. although recent unit revenue trends continue to be above prior year levels, there is no assurance this trend will continue. because of the uncertainty surrounding the nation overall economy, it is difficult for the company to precisely predict first quarter 2009 revenues. consolidated freight revenues increased $15 million, or 11.5 percent, versus 2007. this increase primarily was due to higher rates charged for cargo and freight during 2008. the company currently expects a slight increase in consolidated freight revenues during first quarter 2009 versus first quarter 2008, primarily due to higher rates charged. other revenues increased $55 million, or 20.1 percent, compared to 2007. approximately half of the increase was due to an increase in charter revenues versus 2007 as the company flew charters that were not operated by competitors due to capacity reductions and/or bankruptcy. the majority of the remainder of the increase was from higher commissions earned from programs the company sponsors with certain business partners, such as the company sponsored chase &reg; visa card. the company currently expects a slight year-over-year decrease in first quarter 2009 other revenues compared to first quarter 2008 primarily due to lower expected charter revenues. operating expenses consolidated operating expenses for 2008 increased $1.5 billion, or 16.6 percent, compared to a 3.6 percent increase in capacity. historically, except for changes in the price of fuel, changes in operating expenses for airlines are typically driven by changes in capacity, or asms. the following presents the company operating expenses per asm for 2008 and 2007 followed by explanations of these changes on a per-asm basis and/or on a dollar basis (in cents, except for percentages): 2008 2007 increase (decrease) percent change salaries, wages, and benefits 3.23 3.22 .01 .3 % fuel and oil 3.60 2.70 .90 33.3 maintenance materials and repairs .70 .62 .08 12.9 aircraft rentals .15 .16 (.01 ) (6.3 ) landing fees and other rentals .64 .56 .08 14.3 depreciation and amortization .58 .56 .02 3.6 other 1.34 1.28 .06 4.7 total 10.24 9.10 1.14 12.5 % 22 table of contents the company 2008 casm (cost per available seat mile) increased 12.5 percent compared to 2007. approximately 80 percent of this increase was due to the increase in fuel expense, net of gains from the company fuel hedging program. the majority of the remainder of the increase was due to higher airport costs and maintenance expense. as a result of higher fuel prices throughout much of 2008, the company has continued its diligent focus on improving fuel efficiency and controlling non-fuel costs. the company has implemented various technology improvements, which have improved efficiency and enabled the company to grow headcount at either the same or a slower rate than capacity. based on current cost trends, the company expects first quarter 2009 unit costs to increase from first quarter 2008 9.69 cents, excluding any impact associated with the ineffectiveness of fuel hedges or fuel derivatives that are marked to market value because they do not qualify for special hedge accounting, primarily due to higher salaries, wages, and benefits and the continuation of higher maintenance costs. unit costs will be negatively impacted due to the company decision to decrease its capacity versus first quarter 2008, as it will have similar or higher fixed costs that are spread over fewer asms. salaries, wages, and benefits increased $127 million on an absolute dollar basis. nearly the entire increase was from higher salaries and wages, primarily as a result of higher average wage rates. an increase in health and workers compensation benefits primarily caused by inflationary increases in the cost of medical care was mostly offset by a $46 million decrease in profitsharing, attributable to lower income available for profitsharing. the company profitsharing expense excludes the unrealized gains and/or losses the company records in its fuel hedging program as a result of sfas 133. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on sfas 133 and fuel hedging. salaries, wages, and benefits expense per asm was basically flat compared to 2007. salaries and wages per asm increased primarily due to higher wage rates, but were almost completely offset by a decline in profitsharing expense per asm, as capacity grew 3.6 percent, but profitsharing expense declined 34.7 percent versus 2007. based on current trends, the company expects salaries, wages, and benefits per asm in first quarter 2009 to slightly increase from fourth quarter 2008 unit cost of 3.32 cents, but not exceed 3.40 cents per asm. the company pilots are subject to an agreement between the company and the southwest airlines pilots association ( swapa ), which became amendable during september 2006. the company and swapa are currently in discussions on a new agreement. the company flight attendants are subject to an agreement between the company and the transport workers union of america, afl-cio local 556 ( twu 556 ), which became amendable in june 2008. the company and twu are currently in discussions on a new agreement. the company ramp, operations, provisioning, and freight agents are subject to an agreement between the company and the transport workers union of america, afl-cio local 555 ( twu 555 ), which became amendable in july 2008. the company and twu are currently in mediation. the company stock clerks are subject to an agreement between the company and the international brotherhood of teamsters, local 19 ( ibt local 19 ), and the company mechanics are subject to an agreement between the company and the aircraft mechanics fraternal association ( amfa ). both of these agreements became amendable in august 2008. the company and amfa reached a tentative agreement on behalf of the southwest mechanics in fourth quarter 2008, which was ratified by the mechanics during january 2009. the company and ibt local 19 remain in discussions on a new agreement for the company stock clerks. the company customer service and reservations agents are subject to an agreement between the company and the international association of machinists and aerospace workers, afl-cio ( iam ), which became amendable in november 2008. the company and iam are currently in discussions on a new agreement. the company aircraft appearance technicians and flight dispatchers are subject to agreements between the company and amfa and the company and the transportation workers of america, afl-cio, local 550, which will become amendable in february 2009 and november 2009, respectively. fuel and oil expense increased $1.0 billion, or 38.0 percent, and on a per-asm basis increased 33.3 23 table of contents percent versus 2007. both the dollar and the per-asm increase were driven primarily by a 35.6 percent increase in the average price per gallon for jet fuel, including the impact of fuel derivatives used in hedging, and including related taxes. as a result of the company fuel hedging program and inclusive of the impact of sfas 133, the company recognized net gains totaling $1.1 billion in 2008 relating to fuel derivative instruments versus $686 million of net gains recognized in 2007. cash settlements realized from the expiration/settlement of fuel derivatives were $1.3 billion in 2008 versus $727 million for 2007. the primary reason that gains recognized in fuel and oil expense during 2008 were less than the cash settlement of fuel derivatives was due to the fact that a portion of the gains associated with these settlements had already been recognized in earnings in prior periods, as they were associated with ineffective hedges or derivatives that did not qualify for sfas 133 special hedge accounting. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the 2008 increase in fuel prices was partially offset by steps the company has taken to improve the fuel efficiency of its aircraft, its aircraft engines, and its flight plans and procedures. these steps resulted in a 2.1 percent reduction in fuel gallons consumed per asm flown for 2008 versus 2007. as of december 31, 2008, the company holds fuel hedge positions for the years from 2009 through 2013. for each of these years, the company has a net fuel hedge position for approximately ten percent of its currently forecasted fuel consumption for those periods. as of october 15, 2008, the company had more significant fuel derivative positions related to these future periods, but during fourth quarter 2008, made the decision to reduce such positions to the current levels. the company accomplished this reduced hedge by entering into additional derivative contracts through selling primarily fixed-price swap derivatives. the company believes this strategy enables it to participate in further price declines via the sold derivatives, which should materially offset further declines in value of the company previously purchased derivatives. this decision also benefitted the company by reducing its exposure to cash collateral requirements the company would be required to post with its counterparties if market prices continued to fall. since, in many cases, fuel derivatives were sold at lower prices than the positions that were previously purchased, and disregarding any future potential activity involving fuel derivative instruments, the company has fixed some losses associated with these instruments and currently expects to pay higher than market prices for fuel for these future periods. maintenance materials and repairs per asm increased 12.9 percent compared to 2007, while increasing $105 million on a dollar basis. on both a dollar basis and a per asm basis, engine expense accounted for almost 60 percent of the increase and airframe expense accounted for approximately 40 percent of the increase. the majority of the increase in engine costs related to the company 737-700 aircraft. for all of 2007 and the first half of 2008, these aircraft engines were accounted for on a time and materials basis. during the first half of 2008, there were significantly more repair events for these engines than in the first half of 2007. this was due to the fact that the 737-700 is the newest aircraft type in the company fleet, and, as this fleet has matured, the number of engines on these aircraft undergoing their first major overhaul has increased. as further discussed below, in june 2008, the company transitioned to a new engine repair agreement for these aircraft and, as noted below, expense is now based on flight hours associated with 737-700 engines. the expense for 737-700 engines recognized in the second half of 2008 associated with the current agreement also exceeded the expense recognized in the second half of 2007, when repairs were still being accounted for on a time and materials basis. the increase in airframe expense primarily was due to more planned airframe inspection and repair events than in the prior year. these events, which are required based on the number of flight hours each individual aircraft has flown, were higher in number as well as cost per event. in june 2008, the company transitioned from its previous 737-700 engine repair agreement with ge engines services, inc. (ge engines), under which repairs were done pursuant to a combination of fixed pricing and time and material terms, to a new agreement with ge engines that provides for engine repairs to be done on a rate per flight hour basis. the previous agreement was set to expire in 2013, while the new agreement will expire in 2018. the new agreement covers all engines currently in the company 737-700 fleet as well as future firm deliveries for this aircraft type. under this new agreement, the company has effectively transferred risk for specified future repairs and maintenance on 24 table of contents these engines to the service provider and will pay ge engines a contractual rate per hour flown, as stated in the agreement. since expense for these engine repairs is now based on engine hours flown, as it is for the company 737-300 and 737-500 fleet, this new agreement allows the company to more reliably predict future engine repair costs. considering the new agreement, the company expects maintenance materials and repairs per asm for first quarter 2009 to be similar to the .78 cents per asm experienced in fourth quarter 2008, based on currently scheduled airframe maintenance events and projected engine hours flown. aircraft rentals expense per asm decreased 6.3 percent and, on a dollar basis, decreased slightly. both decreases primarily were due to the fact that the company returned nine operating lease aircraft to lessors during 2008 while the company overall asm capacity increased 3.6 percent through purchases of new aircraft from boeing. the company executed a sale and leaseback of five of its 737-700 aircraft during december 2008, and the leases qualified as operating leases. the company also executed a sale and leaseback of an additional five of its 737-700 aircraft during first quarter 2009, and has determined that these leases will be classified as operating leases. as a result of these transactions, the company currently expects rental expense per asm for first quarter 2009 to be in the .18 cent range. landing fees and other rentals increased $102 million on a dollar basis and increased 14.3 percent on a per-asm basis, compared to 2007. the majority of both the dollar increase and per asm increase was due to higher space rentals in airports as a result of both space increases by the company to accommodate new flight activity and higher rates charged by those airports for gate and terminal space. a portion of these higher rates charged by airports was due to other airlines reduced capacity, as airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights. as a consequence of this continued rate inflation at various airports, the company currently expects landing fees and other rentals per asm in first quarter 2009 to be in the low .70 cents per asm range. depreciation and amortization expense increased $44 million on a dollar basis compared to 2007, and was up 3.6 percent on a per-asm basis. the dollar increase primarily was due to the 26 new 737-700 aircraft purchased during 2008. on a per asm basis, the increase was due to a higher proportion of the company 2008 growth being accomplished through owned aircraft. prior to the sale and leaseback of five aircraft executed during december 2008, the company had purchased the 26 new aircraft received during 2008 and had returned nine previously leased aircraft back to lessors, thereby increasing the percentage of the fleet owned. taking into account the sale and leaseback transactions completed in december 2008 and january 2009, the company expects an increase in depreciation expense for first quarter 2009 on a per-asm basis compared to fourth quarter 2008, due to approximately the same number of owned aircraft spread over a reduced number of asms. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the company future aircraft deliveries and note 8 for further information on the sale and leaseback transactions. other operating expenses increased $105 million and were up 4.7 percent on a per-asm basis, compared to 2007. the majority of the increases on both a dollar basis and a per asm basis were due to an increase in revenue-related costs associated with the 11.5 percent increase in passenger revenues (such as credit card processing fees). taking into account the reclassification of fuel taxes into fuel and oil expense as noted in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the company currently expects other operating expenses on a per-asm basis for first quarter 2009 to be in the 1.50 cents range, primarily due to higher costs related to marketing and advertising initiatives. other other expenses (income) included interest expense, capitalized interest, interest income, and other gains and losses. interest expense increased by $11 million, or 9.2 percent, primarily due to the company issuance of $500 million pass through certificates in october 2007, the company borrowing under its $600 million term loan in may 2008, and its borrowing of $400 million of the available $600 million under its revolving credit facility in october 2008. these issuances were partially offset by declines in floating interest rates associated with the company floating rate debt. the company currently expects an increase in first 25 table of contents quarter 2009 interest expense compared to first quarter 2008, primarily due to a higher average debt balance associated with borrowings in 2008. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on long-term debt transactions. capitalized interest declined 50.0 percent, or $25 million, compared to 2007, due to a reduction in progress payment balances for scheduled future aircraft deliveries and lower interest rates. interest income decreased $18 million, or 40.9 percent, primarily due to a decrease in average rates earned on invested cash and short-term investment balances. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. other (gains) losses, net, primarily includes amounts recorded in accordance with the company hedging activities and sfas 133. during the first half of 2008, the company recorded significant gains related to the ineffectiveness of its hedges, as well as the increase in market value of fuel derivative contracts that were marked to market because they did not qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting, as commodity prices rose during that period. during the second half of 2008, when commodity prices fell, the company recorded significant losses from hedge ineffectiveness and derivatives not qualifying for sfas 133 hedge accounting, thereby more than offsetting the gains previously recorded during the first half of the year. during 2007, the company recorded significant gains related to the ineffectiveness of its hedges as well as to the increase in market value of fuel derivative contracts that were marked to market because they did not qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting. the gains resulted from the increase in the fair value of the company portfolio of fuel derivative instruments as commodity prices rose. the following table displays the components of other (gains) losses, net, for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 (in millions) mark-to-market impact from fuel contracts settling in future periods included in other (gains) losses, net $ (6 ) $ (219 ) ineffectiveness from fuel hedges settling in future periods included in other (gains) losses, net 106 (51 ) realized ineffectiveness and mark-to-market (gains) or losses included in other (gains) losses, net (80 ) (90 ) premium cost of fuel contracts included in other (gains) losses, net 69 58 other 3 10 $ 92 $ (292 ) see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the company hedging activities. income taxes the provision for income taxes, as a percentage of income before taxes, decreased to 35.9 percent in 2008 from 39.0 percent in 2007. the lower 2008 rate included an $12 million ($.01 per share, diluted) net reduction related to the first quarter 2008 reversal of a 2007 revision in illinois income tax laws. the 2007 rate included an $11 million addition to taxes from the enactment of the illinois tax law. the company currently expects its 2009 effective tax rate to be between 37 and 38 percent. 2007 compared with 2006 the company profit of $645 million ($.84 per share, diluted) in 2007 was an increase of $146 million, or 29.3 percent, compared to its 2006 net income of $499 million ($.61 per share, diluted). however, the company net profit results in both 2007 and 2006 included certain gains and losses, recorded in accordance with sfas 133, that relate to fuel derivatives expiring in future periods. these adjustments, which are related to the ineffectiveness of hedges and the loss of hedge accounting for certain fuel derivatives, are included in other (gains) losses, which is below the operating income line, in both periods. in 2007, these adjustments totaled net gains of $360 million. for 2006, these adjustments totaled net losses of $101 million. therefore, the company believes operating income provides a better indication of its financial 26 table of contents performance for both 2007 and 2006 than does net income. the company 2007 operating income was $791 million, a decrease of $143 million, or 15.3 percent, compared to 2006. the decrease in operating income primarily was driven by a substantial increase in fuel expense, despite the fact that the company once again benefited tremendously from its fuel hedging program. the company had instruments in place to protect against over 90 percent of its fuel consumption needs at an average crude oil equivalent price of $50 per barrel. this resulted in a $686 million reduction to fuel and oil expense during 2007, although, even with this protection, the company average jet fuel cost per gallon, including fuel-related taxes, increased from $1.64 in 2006 to $1.80 in 2007. although fuel prices began 2007 at moderately high levels, they quickly increased and stayed at record levels throughout most of the second half of the year. market crude oil prices flirted with $100 per barrel several times during 2007 and market (unhedged) jet fuel prices reached higher than $2.85 per gallon during the second half of the year. operating revenues consolidated operating revenues increased $775 million, or 8.5 percent, primarily due to a $707 million, or 8.1 percent, increase in passenger revenues. the increase in passenger revenues primarily was due to an increase in capacity, as the company added aircraft and flights, resulting in a 7.5 percent increase in available seat miles compared to 2006. the company purchased a total of 37 new boeing 737-700 aircraft during 2007, and added another two leased 737-700s from a previous owner, resulting in the addition of 39 aircraft for the year. the company attempted to combat high fuel prices through modest fare increases. however, general economic conditions as well as significant low-fare competition made it difficult to raise fares as much as the company had done in 2006. the company passenger revenue yield per rpm (passenger revenues divided by revenue passenger miles) increased 1.2 percent compared to 2006. unit revenue (total revenue divided by available seat miles) also increased 0.9 percent compared to 2006 levels, as a result of the higher rpm yield. consolidated freight revenues decreased $4 million, or 3.0 percent, versus 2006. a $10 million, or 8.5 percent, increase in freight revenues, primarily resulting from higher rates, was more than offset by a $14 million decline in mail revenues. the lower mail revenues were due to the company decision to discontinue carrying mail for the u.s. postal service effective as of the end of second quarter 2006. other revenues increased $72 million, or 35.6 percent, compared to 2006, primarily from higher commissions earned from programs the company sponsors with certain business partners, such as the company sponsored chase &reg; visa card. operating expenses consolidated operating expenses for 2007 increased $918 million, or 11.3 percent, compared to a 7.5 percent increase in capacity. historically, except for changes in the price of fuel, changes in operating expenses for airlines are typically driven by changes in capacity, or asms. the following presents the company operating expenses per asm for 2007 and 2006 followed by explanations of these changes on a per-asm basis and/or on a dollar basis (in cents, except for percentages): 2007 2006 increase (decrease) percent change salaries, wages, and benefits 3.22 3.29 (.07 ) (2.1 )% fuel and oil 2.70 2.47 .23 9.3 maintenance materials and repairs .62 .51 .11 21.6 aircraft rentals .16 .17 (.01 ) (5.9 ) landing fees and other rentals .56 .53 .03 5.7 depreciation and amortization .56 .56 other 1.28 1.27 .01 0.8 total 9.10 8.80 .30 3.4 % the company 2007 casm (cost per available seat mile) increased 3.4 percent compared to 2006. approximately 80 percent of this increase was due to the increase in fuel expense, net of gains from the 27 table of contents company fuel hedging program. the remainder of the increase was due to higher maintenance expense. all other operating expense categories combined to be approximately flat compared to 2006. due to higher fuel prices, the company intensified its focus on controlling non-fuel costs and continued to mitigate wage rate and benefit cost pressures through productivity and efficiency improvements. the company headcount per aircraft at december 31, 2007, was 66, versus a december 31, 2006 level of 68. from the end of 2003 to the end of 2007, the company headcount per aircraft decreased 22 percent, as it implemented various technology improvements, which improved efficiency and enabled the company to grow capacity without a commensurate increase in headcount. on an absolute dollar basis, salaries, wages, and benefits increased $161 million, primarily from a $204 million increase in salaries and wages, partially offset by a $43 million decrease in benefits. the dollar increase in salaries and wages primarily was due to a 5.2 percent headcount increase, and the dollar decrease in benefits primarily was due to a $33 million decrease in profitsharing, attributable to lower income available for profitsharing, and a $43 million decrease in share-based compensation, due to fewer employee stock options becoming vested during 2007 versus 2006. these benefits decreases were partially offset by higher healthcare costs. although the company net income was higher than 2006, income available for profitsharing was lower, since the company profitsharing plan does not consider the unrealized gains and/or losses the company records in its fuel hedging program as a result of sfas 133. salaries, wages, and benefits expense per asm decreased 2.1 percent compared to 2006, primarily due to lower profitsharing expense and lower share-based compensation expense, despite the increase in asms. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on sfas 133 and fuel hedging, and note 14 for further information on share-based compensation. fuel and oil expense increased $406 million, and on a per-asm basis increased 9.3 percent versus 2006. approximately 55 percent of the dollar increase was due to an increase in fuel prices, and the remainder was from an increase in gallons consumed to support the 7.5 percent capacity increase versus 2006. on a per-asm basis, nearly the entire increase was due to higher fuel prices. the fuel derivative instruments the company held for 2007 were not as favorable as those held in the prior year, as they were at higher average crude-oil equivalent prices than the instruments that settled/expired in 2006. despite this, the company hedging program resulted in the realization of $727 million in cash settlements during 2007. these settlements generated a 2007 reduction to fuel and oil expense of $686 million, compared to the prior year when the company fuel derivative instruments resulted in a $634 million reduction to fuel and oil expense. even with these significant hedge positions in both years, the company jet fuel cost per gallon increased 9.8 percent versus 2006. the average cost per gallon of jet fuel in 2007 was $1.80 compared to $1.64 in 2006, including fuel-related taxes and net of hedging gains. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the 2007 increase in fuel prices was partially offset by steps the company has taken to improve the fuel efficiency of its aircraft, including the addition of blended winglets to all of the company 737-700 aircraft and a significant number of its 737-300 aircraft. maintenance materials and repairs per asm increased 21.6 percent compared to 2006, while increasing $148 million on a dollar basis. on a dollar basis, engine expense accounted for over 45 percent of the increase and airframe expense accounted for over 43 percent of the increase. with respect to airframe expense, the company completed significantly more planned airframe inspection and repair events than in 2006. these events, which are required based on the number of flight hours each individual aircraft has flown, were higher in number as well as cost per event, and were also due to the ongoing transition to a new airframe maintenance program for 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft which began in 2006. in engine expense, there was a significant increase in repairs for the company 737-700 aircraft engines primarily due to the maturation of this fleet, which was introduced in 1997, and more repair events than expected. on a per-asm basis, approximately 48 percent of the increase in maintenance materials and repairs was a result of the higher airframe expense, and approximately 43 percent of the increase was due to the higher engine expense. aircraft rentals expense per asm decreased 5.9 percent and, on a dollar basis, decreased slightly. the decrease per asm primarily was due to the fact that the company increased overall asms by 7.5 percent, 28 table of contents but the number of aircraft on operating lease increased by only two from 2006 to 2007. the company added 37 purchased aircraft to its fleet during 2007, and leased two additional 737-700 aircraft. landing fees and other rentals increased $65 million on a dollar basis and 5.7 percent on a per-asm basis, compared to 2006. the dollar increase primarily was due to an increase in airport gate space to support the increase in capacity and trips flown versus 2006. on a per-asm basis, the increase primarily was due to higher rates paid for airport space. depreciation and amortization expense increased $40 million on a dollar basis compared to 2006, but was flat on a per-asm basis. the dollar increase primarily was due to 37 new 737-700 aircraft purchased during 2007. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the company future aircraft deliveries. other operating expenses increased $100 million but were relatively flat on a per-asm basis, compared to 2006. on a dollar basis, over 20 percent of the increase was due to an increase in revenue-related costs associated with the 8.1 percent increase in passenger revenues (such as credit card processing fees) and over 20 percent was due to higher personnel expenses (which includes items associated with flight crew travel, such as hotel and per diem costs) caused by the increase in capacity and trips flown. other other expenses (income) included interest expense, capitalized interest, interest income, and other gains and losses. interest expense decreased by $9 million, or 7.0 percent, primarily due to the company repayment of $729 million in debt during 2006 and 2007. this was partially offset by the issuance of $800 million in new debt instruments in 2006 and 2007; however, the timing of the new debt issued compared to the debt repaid resulted in lower expense for 2007. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on long-term debt transactions. capitalized interest declined slightly compared to 2006 due to a reduction in progress payment balances for scheduled future aircraft deliveries. interest income decreased $40 million, or 47.6 percent, primarily due to a decrease in average cash and short-term investment balances on which the company earns interest. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. other (gains) losses, net, primarily includes amounts recorded in accordance with the company hedging activities and sfas 133. during 2007, the company recorded significant gains related to the ineffectiveness of its hedges as well as to the increase in market value of fuel derivative contracts that were marked to market because they didn t qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting. the gains resulted from the dramatic increase in the fair value of the company portfolio of fuel derivative instruments as commodity prices reached record levels. during 2006, the company recorded losses related to the ineffectiveness of its hedges, as well as the increase in market value of fuel derivative contracts that were marked to market because they didn t qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting, as commodity prices declined during that year. the following table displays the components of other (gains) losses, net, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 (in millions) mark-to-market impact from fuel contracts settling in future periods included in other (gains) losses, net $ (219 ) $ 42 ineffectiveness from fuel hedges settling in future periods included in other (gains) losses, net (51 ) 39 realized ineffectiveness and mark-to-market (gains) or losses included in other (gains) losses, net (90 ) 20 premium cost of fuel contracts included in other (gains) losses, net 58 52 other 10 (2 ) $ (292 ) $ 151 see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the company hedging activities. 29 table of contents income taxes the provision for income taxes, as a percentage of income before taxes, increased to 39.0 percent in 2007 from 36.8 percent in 2006. the higher 2007 rate included an $11 million ($.01 per share, diluted) net addition related to a revision in illinois income tax laws enacted in 2007. the 2006 rate included a $9 million net reduction related to a revision in the state of texas franchise tax law enacted during 2006. as a result of the january 2008 reversal of the 2007 illinois tax law change, the company reversed the previously mentioned $11 million net charge during first quarter 2008. liquidity and capital resources net cash used in operating activities was $1.5 billion in 2008 compared to $2.8 billion provided by operations in 2007. for the company, operating cash inflows primarily are derived from providing air transportation for customers. the vast majority of tickets are purchased prior to the day on which travel is provided and, in some cases, several months before the anticipated travel date. operating cash outflows primarily are related to the recurring expenses of operating the airline. operating cash flows over the past three years have also been significantly impacted by the company fuel hedge positions and the significant fluctuation in fair value of those positions. during 2006, 2007, and the first ten months of 2008, the value of the company fuel derivative instruments was positive, resulting in the company holding counterparty cash deposits at times significant amounts. these cash deposits held were reflected as an increase to cash and a corresponding increase to accrued liabilities. in the consolidated statement of cash flows, increases and/or decreases to these cash deposits have been reflected in operating cash flows within the changes to accounts payable and accrued liabilities line item. in late 2008, the net fair value of fuel derivative instruments held became a liability, requiring the company to post cash collateral with a counterparty. as of december 31, 2008, the amount of cash posted with this counterparty was $240 million, and is reflected as a decrease to cash and a corresponding increase to prepaid expenses and other current assets. increases or decreases to cash deposits posted to counterparties are reflected in operating cash flows within the changes to other current assets line item. since the amount of cash collateral deposits held by the company at december 31, 2007 was $2.0 billion, the net change in cash deposits for 2008 was a net operating outflow of $2.2 billion. this compares to an increase in counterparty deposits (operating inflow) of $1.5 billion for 2007. the increase in these deposits during 2007 was due to the significant increase in fair value of the company fuel derivative portfolio from december 31, 2006, to december 31, 2007 (in conjunction with rising energy prices). cash flows associated with purchasing derivatives, which are also classified as operating cash flows, were a net outflow of $418 million in 2008, but were immaterial for 2007. cash flows from operating activities for 2008 were also driven by the $178 million in net income, plus noncash depreciation and amortization expense of $599 million. for further information on the company hedging program and counterparty deposits, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, and item 7a. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. operating cash generated primarily is used to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash flows used in investing activities in 2008 totaled $978 million, versus $1.5 billion used in 2007. investing activities in both years primarily consisted of payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 26 new 737-700 aircraft in 2008 versus the purchase of 37 737-700s in 2007. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2008 and 2007 were also reduced by $55 million and $198 million, respectively, related to changes in the balance of the company short-term investments. net cash provided by financing activities was $1.7 billion in 2008. during 2008, the company borrowed $600 million under a term loan agreement, borrowed $400 million under its revolving credit facility, sold $400 million of secured notes, and raised approximately $173 million from a sale and leaseback transaction involving five of the company 737-700 aircraft. the company also received $117 million in proceeds from employees exercise of stock options and $91 million from a credit line borrowing. these inflows were partially offset by the company repurchase of $54 million of its common stock, representing a total of 4.4 million shares. net cash used in financing activities was $493 million in 2007, primarily from the company repurchase of $1.0 billion of its common stock. the company repurchased a total of 66 million shares of outstanding common 30 table of contents stock during 2007 as a result of buyback programs authorized by the company board of directors. these uses were partially offset by the october 2007 issuance of $500 million pass through certificates consisting of $412 million 6.15% series a certificates and $88 million 6.65% series b certificates. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company recently amended one of its counterparty agreements, and the amendment became effective in january 2009. this amendment significantly reduced the company current exposure to cash collateral requirements. previously, if the company became obligated to post collateral as security for its potential obligations under the agreement, all such collateral was required to be cash. under the amendment, until january 1, 2010, if the company becomes obligated to post collateral for obligations in amounts of up to $300 million and in excess of $700 million, the company will continue to be required to post cash collateral; however, if the company becomes obligated to post collateral for obligations in amounts between $300 million and $700 million, the company has pledged 20 of its boeing 737-700 aircraft as collateral in lieu of cash. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments the company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 26 boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2008, all of which were new aircraft from boeing. three additional boeing 737-700 aircraft were scheduled to be received during 2008; however, due to a strike by machinists at boeing during the second half of the year, these aircraft were deferred until 2009. the company also retired nine of its older leased 737-300 aircraft during 2008 and executed a sale and leaseback transaction for five of its owned 737-700 aircraft. due to the collapse of the credit market in 2008 and the severe economic recession, the company evaluated its future aircraft needs based on a projected decline in demand for air travel. this led the company to revise its future firm commitments for new aircraft from boeing. as of december 31, 2008, the company had reduced its firm orders to a total of 99 737-700 aircraft for the years 2009 through 2016. the company also had reduced its options to 67 737-700 aircraft from 2010 through 2015, with an additional 54 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft through 2018 as set forth in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. in january 2009, the company further revised its firm orders to 104 737-700 aircraft and its options to 62 737-700 aircraft as set forth in part i, item 2 of this filing. the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from boeing and must be exercised 18 months prior to the contractual delivery date. the leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) effectively provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as of december 31, 2008, the company operated 91 leased aircraft, of which 82 are operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $222 million at december 31, 2008. 31 table of contents the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2008: obligations by period (in millions) contractual obligations 2009 2010 - 2011 2012 - 2013 beyond 2013 total long-term debt (1) $ 58 $ 1,028 $ 523 $ 1,879 $ 3,488 interest commitments (2) 188 376 271 668 1,503 capital lease commitments (3) 16 27 43 operating lease commitments 376 573 355 728 2,032 aircraft purchase commitments (4) 393 937 1,135 769 3,234 other purchase commitments 50 117 52 219 total contractual obligations $ 1,081 $ 3,058 $ 2,336 $ 4,044 $ 10,519 (1) includes current maturities, but excludes amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements (2) related to fixed-rate debt (3) includes amounts classified as interest (4) firm orders from boeing in addition to the above contractual fixed obligations, the company also had estimated obligations at december 31, 2008, related to its fuel derivative positions for the years 2009 through 2013 (based on the contractual settlement date of those derivative instruments). although the fair value of these positions can fluctuate significantly based on forward market prices for crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline, the following table displays these estimated obligations as of december 31, 2008 (in millions): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 total fuel derivative obligations $ 246 $ 239 $ 236 $ 146 $ 125 $ 992 available to the company at december 31, 2008, was cash on hand and short-term investments totaling $1.8 billion, present and future internally generated funds, and $200 million remaining under its $600 million bank revolving line of credit. the company october 2008 $400 million borrowing under its revolving credit facility is being used for general corporate purposes and was done in order to enhance the company liquidity as a result of the current instability of the credit market. unless extended or renewed, the revolving credit facility expires and would require full repayment by august 2010. subsequent to december 31, 2008, the company executed the second tranche of a sale and leaseback transaction generating approximately $173 million in cash for the company. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize earnings and supplement cash requirements. notwithstanding current economic conditions and the current liquidity environment, the company believes it has access to financing arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability, which should enable it to meet its 2009 capital and operating requirements. however, given the current environment, interest rates on borrowing are significantly higher than levels experienced in recent history. as of december 31, 2008, the book value of the company unencumbered aircraft totaled approximately $7.5 billion. standard &amp; poor and fitch both recently downgraded the company credit rating from a- to bbb+ based on the volatility of fuel prices, current economic conditions, and a more negative assessment of the long-term fundamentals of the u.s. airline industry. while the company credit rating remains investment grade, as defined, the lower rating will likely result in a slight increase in its borrowing costs on a prospective basis. moody has also recently reaffirmed the company baa1 rating, which is also considered investment grade. in 2006 and 2007, the company board of directors authorized five separate programs for the 32 table of contents repurchase of up to a total of $1.8 billion of the company common stock $300 million authorized in january 2006, $300 million authorized in may 2006, $400 million authorized in november 2006, $300 million authorized in march 2007, and $500 million authorized in may 2007. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. these programs, the last of which was completed during third quarter 2007, resulted in the repurchase of a total of approximately 116 million shares. during january 2008, the company board of directors authorized an additional program for the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company common stock. repurchases have been and will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. the company repurchased 4.4 million shares for a total of $54 million as part of this program through february 15, 2008; however, the company has not repurchased any additional shares from that date through the date of this filing. the company does not believe it is prudent to repurchase shares at the current time considering today unstable financial markets and volatile fuel prices. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2008 was $963 million, compared to $931 million as of december 31, 2007. estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage, tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and members of the airline industry have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date of travel. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. holding other factors constant, a ten-percent change in the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets for 2008 would have resulted in a $21 million, or .2 percent, change in passenger revenues recognized for that period. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or 33 table of contents forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, and promotional fare activity. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. no material adjustments were recorded for the years 2008, 2007, or 2006. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2008, the company had approximately $15.9 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $13.7 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 455 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2008, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 82 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2008, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated useful life estimated residual value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 10%-15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market information, and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, the company has continued to operate all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairments related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices, and accounts for them 34 table of contents under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended (sfas 133). see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on sfas 133, the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. sfas 133 requires that all derivatives be reflected at market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2008, the company was a party to over 536 financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for the years from 2009 through 2013. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2008, was a net liability of $992 million, compared to an asset of $2.4 billion at december 31, 2007. the large decrease in fair value primarily was due to the significant decrease in energy prices in the fourth quarter of 2008, net of the expiration (i.e., settlement in which the company received cash proceeds) of approximately $1.3 billion in fuel derivative instruments that related to 2008 and net of new derivative instruments the company added for future years. of the $992 million liability in fair value of fuel hedging financial derivative instruments at december 31, 2008, approximately $246 million is expected to settle, or expire during 2009. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically, as was evident during 2008, based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. during 2008, market spot prices for crude oil peaked at a high of over $147 per barrel and hit a low price of under $35 per barrel both within a period of approximately five months. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices, as required by sfas 133. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in recent years, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company estimates of the presumed effectiveness of its hedges made at the time the hedges were initially designated have materially differed from actual results, resulting in increased volatility in the company periodic financial results. for example, historical data had been utilized in qualifying unleaded gasoline for sfas 133 hedge accounting under the presumption that derivatives of such commodity would result in effective hedges, as defined. this historical data is updated every quarterly reporting period to ascertain whether sfas 133 hedge accounting is allowed for every commodity the company uses in its hedging program. based on these updates, in certain prior periods, the company has in fact lost sfas 133 hedge accounting for all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments. at such times, the company has marked all such derivatives to market value in each quarterly period, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other (gains) losses, net in the consolidated statement of income. although 35 table of contents commodities such as crude oil and heating oil have continued to qualify for hedge accounting in most cases, there have been instances in which the company has also lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for these commodities. in these instances, the company has also marked such derivatives to market value with changes reflected in the income statement each reporting period. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that crude oil and heating oil in most cases still qualify for sfas 133 hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. if recent volatility in these commodity markets continues for an extended period of time or worsens in the near future, the company could lose hedge accounting altogether for all crude oil and heating oil derivatives, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine how they are accounted for under sfas 133. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result, as defined by sfas 133. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other gains and losses in the income statement in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the significant increase in the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during recent periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for protection. the number of instances in which the company has discontinued hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, has increased in recent years, primarily due to these reasons. depending on the level at which the company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the company hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued variability recorded in the income statement, and furthermore, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large dollar volumes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges, as required by sfas 133. the current methodology used by the company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. in accordance with sfas 133, the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this methodology for estimating future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2008, 2007, and 2006, in accordance with the company interpretation of sfas 133. the company also has not changed its method for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods. 36 table of contents at times, the company also utilizes financial derivative instruments in the form of interest rate swap agreements. prior to 2008, the company had entered into interest rate swap agreements related to its $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027. the primary objective for the company use of these interest rate hedges was to reduce the volatility of net interest income by better matching the repricing of its assets and liabilities. these interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges, as defined by sfas 133. in addition, these interest rate swap agreements qualify for the shortcut method of accounting for hedges, as defined by sfas 133. under the shortcut method, the hedges are assumed to be perfectly effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. during 2008, the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement concurrent with its entry into a twelve-year, $600 million floating-rate term loan agreement. under this swap agreement, which is accounted for as a cash flow hedge, the interest rate on the term loan is essentially fixed for its entire term at 5.223 percent and ineffectiveness is required to be measured each reporting period. the fair values of the company interest rate swap agreements are adjusted regularly and are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. if the interest rate hedge is accounted for as a fair value hedge, the corresponding offsetting adjustment is to the carrying value of the long-term debt. for the interest rate hedge accounted for as a cash flow hedge, the corresponding offsetting adjustment is to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , net of appropriate taxes. the total fair value of all interest rate swap agreements, excluding accrued interest, at december 31, 2008, was an asset of approximately $81 million. the total fair value of the swap agreements held at december 31, 2007, was an asset of $16 million. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices, would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. share-based compensation the company has previously awarded share-based compensation pursuant to plans covering the majority of its employee groups, including plans adopted via collective bargaining, a plan covering the company board of directors, and plans related to employment contracts with the chairman emeritus of the company. the company accounts for share-based compensation in accordance with sfas no. 123r, share-based payment, which requires companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. the company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant utilizing a modified black-scholes option pricing model. the black-scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of short-term traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. however, certain assumptions used in the black-scholes model, such as expected term, can be adjusted to incorporate the unique characteristics of the company stock option awards. option valuation models require the input of somewhat subjective assumptions including expected stock price volatility and expected term. in estimating expected stock price volatility at the time of a particular stock option grant, the company relies on observations of historical volatility trends, implied future volatility observations as determined by independent third parties, and implied volatility from traded options on the company stock. for 2008, 2007, and 2006 option grants, the company has consistently utilized a weighted-average approach that calculates expected volatility using two-thirds implied volatility and one-third historical volatility. in determining the expected term of the option grants, the company has observed the actual terms of prior grants with similar characteristics, the actual vesting schedule of the grant, and assessed the expected risk tolerance of different optionee groups. other assumptions required for estimating fair value with the black-scholes model are the expected risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield of the company stock. the risk-free interest rates used were actual u.s. treasury zero-coupon rates for bonds matching the expected term of the option on the date of grant. the expected dividend yield of the 37 table of contents company common stock over the expected term of the option on the date of grant was estimated based on the company current dividend yield, and adjusted for anticipated future changes. vesting terms for the company stock option plans differ based on the type of grant made and the group to which the options are granted. for grants made to employees under collective bargaining plans, vesting has ranged in length from immediate vesting to vesting periods in accordance with the period covered by the respective collective bargaining agreement. for grants to other employees, options generally vest and become fully exercisable over three, five, or ten years of continued employment, depending upon the grant type. for grants in any of the company plans that are subject to graded vesting over a service period, the company recognizes expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. none of the company grants include performance-based or market-based vesting conditions, as defined. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. fair value measurements the company adopted the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 157 (sfas 157) effective january 1, 2008. the company has determined that it utilizes unobservable (level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2008, these included auction rate security investments, valued at $200 million, a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were a net liability of $864 million, and $8 million in other investments. all of the company auction rate security instruments are reflected at estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2008, approximately $109 million of these instruments are classified as available for sale securities and $91 million are classified as trading securities. in prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30-35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would have qualified as level 1 under sfas 157. however, due to events in credit markets beginning during first quarter 2008, the auction events for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, the company has determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis or other type of valuation model as of december 31, 2008. in addition, the company obtained an independent valuation of a selected number of auction rate security instruments and has considered these valuations in determining estimated fair values of other similar instruments within its portfolio. the company analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, and estimates of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction or return to full par value. these securities were also compared, when possible, to other securities not owned by the company, but with similar characteristics. due to these events, the company reclassified these instruments as level 3 during first quarter 2008. in association with this estimate of fair value, the company has recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of $11 million, with an offsetting entry to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). given the quality and backing of the company auction rate securities held, the fact that the company has not yet recorded a loss on the sale of any of these instruments, and the fact that it has been able to periodically sell instruments in the periodic auction process, it believes it can continue to account for the estimated reduction in fair value of its remaining securities as temporary. these conclusions will also continue to be evaluated and challenged in subsequent periods. the company currently believes that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets for the majority of securities are almost entirely backed by the u.s. government. in addition, for the $109 million in instruments classified as available for sale, these auction rate securities represented approximately six percent of the company total cash, cash equivalent, and investment balance at december 31, 2008, which it believes allows it sufficient time for the securities to return to full value. for the $91 million in instruments classified as trading securities, the company has entered into an agreement with the counterparty that allows the company to put the 38 table of contents instruments back to the counterparty at full par value in june 2010. as part of this agreement, the company has entered into a line of credit in which it has received a $91 million loan that is secured by the auction rate security instruments from that counterparty. at the time of the first failed auctions during first quarter 2008, the company held a total of $463 million in securities. since that time, the company has been able to sell $252 million of these instruments at par value, in addition to the $91 million subject to the agreement to be sold at par in june 2010. the company is also in discussions with other counterparties to determine whether mutually agreeable decisions can be reached regarding the effective repurchase of its remaining securities. the company determines the value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing a standard option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. in situations where the company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. the company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily volatility), as defined in sfas 157, the company has categorized these option contracts as level 3. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, any changes in the fair values of fuel derivative instruments are subject to the requirements of sfas 133. any changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the period in which the expected cash flow impacts earnings. any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that are ineffective, as defined, or do not qualify for special hedge accounting, are reflected in earnings within other (gains)/losses, net , in the period of the change. because the company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the company derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the company financial statements. in addition, the company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the company) to provide cash collateral when the fair values of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the company outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the company estimate of fair values. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 91 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. fuel hedging the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. 39 table of contents the company expects to consume approximately 1.5 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2009. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $15 million per year, excluding any impact of the company derivative instruments. as of december 31, 2008, the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that effectively represented a hedge of approximately ten percent of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2009 through 2013. prior to fourth quarter 2008, the company had held fuel derivative instruments for a much larger portion of its anticipated fuel purchases for these years; however, due to the recent precipitous decline in fuel prices, the company significantly reduced its hedge in order to minimize fuel hedging losses related to further oil price declines and to minimize the potential for the company to provide additional cash collateral deposits to counterparties. the company accomplished this reduced hedge by entering into additional derivative contracts through selling primarily fixed-price swap derivatives. the company believes this strategy enables it to participate in further price declines via the sold derivatives, which should materially offset further declines in value of the company previously purchased derivatives. the total net fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2008, was a net liability of $992 million. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $246 million, is classified as a component of accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $746 million, is included in other deferred liabilities. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten-percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2008 (for all years from 2009 through 2013), prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by up to approximately $90 million. changes in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2008, levels, except underlying futures prices. the company credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company at the reporting date. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. however, in such cases, the company does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations and has not experienced any significant credit loss as a result of counterparty nonperformance in the past. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2008, the company had agreements with eight counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. as of december 31, 2008, the company had active portfolios with three of these counterparties. based on the company current investment grade credit rating, for one counterparty, these collateral provisions require cash deposits to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with that counterparty exceed a specific threshold cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. during fourth quarter 2008, the modification of the company fuel hedge portfolio, in combination with the amendment to one of the company counterparty agreements that became effective in january 2009, significantly reduced the company current exposure to cash collateral requirements. prior to the amendment, if the company became 40 table of contents obligated to post collateral as security for its potential obligations under this counterparty agreement, all such collateral was required to be cash. under the agreement, as amended, until january 1, 2010, if the company becomes obligated to post collateral for obligations in amounts of up to $300 million and in excess of $700 million, the company will continue to be required to post cash collateral; however, if the company becomes obligated to post collateral for obligations in amounts between $300 million and $700 million, the company has pledged 20 of its boeing 737-700 aircraft as collateral in lieu of cash. as of january 20, 2009, assuming no changes to the company current net fuel hedge position, the forward market price of crude oil would have to fall to approximately $10 per barrel for each year from 2009 to 2013 before the company would exceed the $700 million threshold that would require additional cash collateral beyond the initial $300 million level. at december 31, 2008, the company had posted $240 million in cash collateral deposits with a counterparty under these bilateral collateral provisions. the deposits are classified as a component of prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. financial market risk the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it has maintained a strong balance sheet and a bbb+ rating with fitch and standard &amp; poor s, and a baa1 credit rating with moody as of december 31, 2008. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings are floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, the $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. 41 table of contents excluding the notes or debentures that were converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company only fixed-rate senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2008 were its $300 million notes due 2016. these senior unsecured notes have a fixed-rate of 5.75 percent, which is comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the following table displays the characteristics of the company secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2008: principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral secured notes $ 400 10.500 % 12/15/2011 17 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft pass through certificates 500 6.240 % 8/1/2022 16 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 600 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $1.4 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 6.9 years at floating rates averaging 4.0 percent for the twelve months ended december 31, 2008. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 14.7 percent and 12.3 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2008. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.4 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $435 million, at december 31, 2008. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, auction rate securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. however, as a result of recent turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2008, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2008, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $3 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2008, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, its outstanding debt agreements, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. for the revolving credit facility, of which $400 million of the available $600 million had been drawn as of december 31, 2008, the company must also maintain, at all times, a coverage ratio, as defined in the agreement, of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. the company met this condition as of december 31, 2008. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the agreement, there could be a reduction in 42 table of contents the availability of cash under the agreement, or an increase in the costs to keep the agreement intact as written. two of the company hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company credit rating falls below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies. as of december 31, 2008, there was no cash posted with these counterparties. given the company net fuel hedge liability with these counterparties at december 31, 2008, and assuming its credit rating were below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $700 million in cash collateral deposits with the counterparties. however, these cash collateral deposit requirements would be correspondingly reduced as the underlying fuel derivative instruments settle including by approximately $244 million in 2009. the company currently has processing agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor would have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2008 the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the company business has continued to be heavily impacted by fuel prices, which can be extremely volatile; therefore, the company strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company ability to effectively address fuel prices. fuel price volatility continues to present one of the company most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel, which has been at historically high levels over the last few years, is largely unpredictable; and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. fuel prices are unpredictable, in part, because of many external factors that are beyond the company control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited refining capacity; and (iii) changes in governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, and marketing. likewise, the company ability to react to fuel price volatility can be affected by factors outside of its control. for example, the company profitability is affected in part by its ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases are difficult to implement in difficult economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the company ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as its low fares reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, and the competitive nature of the airline industry generally. although fuel prices during 2009 were lower overall than in 2008, prices remained much higher than long-term historical averages. jet fuel and oil consumed for 2009 and 2008 represented approximately 30 percent and 35 percent of the company operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the second largest expense incurred by the company in 2009 and the largest expense in 2008. as a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the company growth plans and strategic initiatives. the company has historically entered into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs; however, as a result of a significant decline in fuel prices at the end of 2008, the company significantly reduced 13 table of contents its net fuel hedge position in place for 2009 through 2013, leaving it with less protection against future increases. these types of adjustments in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, have historically significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the company results of operations. the company fuel hedging arrangements and the impact of hedge accounting on the company results of operations are discussed in more detail under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; further unfavorable economic conditions would likely negatively affect the company results of operations. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, which affect customer travel patterns and related revenues. for example, recent unfavorable economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, reduced sales revenues for many companies, and increased business operating costs, have reduced spending for both leisure and business travel, as potential customers cut back on travel expenses. leisure travel may be viewed as an expendable discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers can replace air travel with surface travel. businesses may be able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which results in a decrease in average revenue per seat. the company operations are subject to the risk that changes in travel patterns during recent periods of economic difficulty could remain despite any improving economic conditions. unfavorable economic conditions can also impact the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. in addition, the company high percentage of short-haul flights increases its exposure to competition from surface travel alternatives during periods of unfavorable economic conditions. the company low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. the company low cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled the company to offer low fares and drive traffic volume; however, the airline industry is capital intensive, and the company has limited control over increases in many of its costs, such as fuel, labor, and aircraft airframe and engine repairs, as well as environmental, safety, security, and regulatory compliance costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 30 percent of the company operating expenses during 2009, and pricing is subject to the external factors discussed in the first risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 34 percent of the company operating expenses during 2009. the company ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have already impacted its low cost competitive position. in addition, health care reform currently under consideration in the u.s. congress could substantially change the health care and insurance industries in the united states, which could increase the company costs. the company regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies, as discussed above under business regulation. in addition, as other airlines have reduced capacity at a greater pace than has the company, the company has incurred a higher percentage of total airport-related costs. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, the company could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, in the event of an accident or other incident involving company aircraft, the company could be responsible for costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of the company. 14 table of contents the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain its current level of low cost advantage. reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, has allowed other carriers to decrease operating costs through renegotiated labor, supply, and financing agreements. in addition, as discussed above, increases in the cost of fuel over historical levels have exacerbated cost challenges for the industry as a whole. the company results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to timely and effectively implement its revenue initiatives. the company has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing costs led to the company decision to curtail growth during 2009 and for the indefinite future. in addition, growth has become increasingly difficult, as the number of opportunities has declined and the company faces an increased presence of other low cost carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the successful implementation of new revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be impacted by (i) the company ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. because the company has limited experience with some of its strategic initiatives, it cannot ensure the timing of their implementation or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company information systems could materially adversely affect the company operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations, as well as to support its initiatives. during 2009, the company replaced or enhanced several key technology systems and is scheduled to convert several more. these systems are discussed in more detail above under business management information systems. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company ability to effectively operate its business. in particular, the company could encounter systems and operational complications in connection with its conversion to a new sap enterprise resource planning application, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, or results of operations. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements. the company operations could be adversely affected if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. unstable credit, capital, and energy markets could result in future pressure on the company credit ratings and could also negatively impact the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company liquidity generally. the company credit ratings have been pressured by weak industry revenue and the volatile fuel price environment. standard &amp; poor and fitch both recently downgraded the company credit rating from bbb+ to bbb based on lower demand, especially among business travelers, and continued volatility in fuel prices. while the company credit rating remains investment grade, the lower ratings will likely result in a slight increase in the company borrowing costs on a prospective basis. moody also downgraded the company rating from baa1 to baa3 and lowered the ratings of the company pass-through and enhanced equipment 15 table of contents trust certificates ( ptc and eetc ). the downgrade of the company senior unsecured debt rating was based on moody expectation of continuing weak fundamentals of the domestic airlines sector. the downgrade of the company ratings on its ptcs and eetcs reflects the reduction in the company underlying credit quality, and, with respect to the ptcs, the elevated loan to value ratios resulting from the older vintage 737-300 aircraft that are pledged as collateral for these transactions. factors such as further unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or continued instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively impact (i) the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (b) the company liquidity generally, and (c) the availability and cost of insurance. in addition, further downgrades could trigger credit rating provisions in the company credit card transaction processing agreements and some hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of further downgrades is discussed in more detail under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from either of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some of these aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, the company operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet type, outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft strategy. the company is also dependent on a sole supplier for aircraft engines and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with its engines. the company business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 34 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2009. in addition, as of december 31, 2009, approximately 82 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees representatives, as was evidenced during 2009 when it completed five major contract negotiations; however, new labor contracts contribute to the company cost pressures. increasing labor costs, combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company competitive position. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially impacted the demand for air travel and have also resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. 16 table of contents airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; changes to the environmental regulations discussed above under business regulation ; increases in taxes; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, or other customer service standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company results of operations. in addition, when the airline industry shrinks, airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company business strategies. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is impacted by conditions that are largely outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. 17 table of contents the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is extremely competitive. the company competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including surface transportation. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. operating cash generated is used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash flows used in investing activities in 2009 totaled $1.6 billion, versus $978 million used in 2008. investing activities in both years included payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 13 new 737-700 aircraft in 2009 versus the purchase of 26 737-700s in 2008. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2009 and 2008 also reflect $986 million and $55 million, respectively, related to changes in the balance of the company short-term investments. the company increased its short-term investments in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher overall cash balances and in order to seek higher returns on its cash holdings. net cash provided by financing activities was $330 million in 2009. during 2009, the company raised $381 million from the sale and leaseback of 11 737-700 aircraft, and borrowed $332 million and $124 million under secured term loan arrangements. also during 2009, the company repaid the $400 million it had borrowed during 2008 under its revolving credit agreement. net cash provided by financing activities was $1.7 billion in 2008. during 2008, the company borrowed $600 million under a term loan agreement, borrowed $400 million under its revolving credit facility, sold $400 million of secured notes, and raised approximately $173 million from a sale and leaseback transaction involving five of the company 737-700 aircraft. during 2008, the company also received $117 million in proceeds from employees exercise of stock options and $91 million from a credit line borrowing. these inflows were partially offset by the company repurchase of $54 million of its common stock, representing a total of 4.4 million shares. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments the company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 13 boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2009, all of which were new aircraft from boeing. the company also removed 13 of its older leased and owned 737-300 aircraft from service during 2009 and executed sale and leaseback transactions for 11 of its owned 737-700 aircraft. as of december 31, 2009, the company had firm orders for a total of 91 737-700 aircraft for the years 2010 through 2016. the company also had options for 59 737-700 aircraft from 2011 through 2017, with an additional 54 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft through 2018 (as further described in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the company has the option to substitute 737-600s or -800s for the -700s. this option is applicable to aircraft ordered from boeing and must be exercised 18 months prior to the contractual delivery date. the leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) effectively provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as of december 31, 2009, the company operated 97 leased aircraft, of which 88 are operating leases. as prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles (gaap), assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 35 table of contents the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $285 million at december 31, 2009. the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2009: obligations by period (in millions) contractual obligations 2010 2011 - 2012 2013 - 2014 beyond 2014 total long-term debt (1) $ 176 $ 996 $ 573 $ 1,714 $ 3,459 interest commitments fixed (2) 93 186 186 531 996 interest commitments floating (3) 85 139 117 170 511 capital lease commitments (4) 15 12 27 operating lease commitments 414 712 476 1,032 2,634 aircraft purchase commitments (5) 344 1,021 1,143 692 3,200 other purchase commitments 81 110 15 206 total contractual obligations $ 1,208 $ 3,176 $ 2,510 $ 4,139 $ 11,033 (1) includes principal only (2) related to fixed-rate debt only (3) interest obligations associated with floating-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) is estimated utilizing forward interest rate curves as of december 31, 2009, and can be subject to significant fluctuation. (4) includes amounts classified as interest (5) firm orders from boeing in addition to the above contractual fixed obligations, the company also had estimated obligations at december 31, 2009, related to its fuel derivative positions for the years 2010 through 2013 (based on the contractual settlement date of those derivative instruments, but excluding the impact of the $330 million in cash collateral deposits that have been provided to counterparties, which will effectively reduce the net cash flows paid as the derivative instruments settle). although the fair value of these positions can fluctuate significantly based on forward market prices for crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline, the following table displays these estimated obligations as of december 31, 2009 (in millions): 2010 2011 2012 2013 total fuel derivative obligations (gross) $ 124 $ 114 $ 109 $ 130 $ 477 net of cash collateral deposits (92 ) (48 ) (107 ) (83 ) (330 ) net fuel derivative obligations $ 32 $ 66 $ 2 $ 47 $ 147 available to the company at december 31, 2009, was cash on hand and short-term investments totaling $2.6 billion, anticipated future internally generated funds from operations, and its $600 million bank revolving line of credit. in addition, the company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize liquidity and supplement cash requirements as needed. notwithstanding current economic conditions and the current liquidity environment, the company believes it has access to financing arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability, which should enable it to meet its 2010 capital and operating requirements. as of december 31, 2009, the book value of the company unencumbered aircraft totaled approximately $5.4 billion. in 2009, standard &amp; poor and fitch both downgraded the company credit rating from bbb+ to bbb based on lower demand, especially among business travelers, and continued volatility in fuel 36 table of contents prices. while the company credit rating remains investment grade, as defined, the lower rating will likely result in a slight increase in its borrowing costs on a prospective basis. moody also downgraded the company rating from baa1 to baa3 and also lowered the ratings of the company ptcs and eetcs. the downgrade of the company senior unsecured debt rating was based on moody expectation of continuing weak fundamentals of the domestic airline sector. the downgrade of the company ratings on its ptcs and eetcs reflects the reduction in the company underlying credit quality, and with respect to the ptcs the elevated loan to value ratios resulting from the older vintage 737-300 aircraft that are pledged as collateral for these transactions. during 2008, the city of dallas approved the love field modernization program (lfmp), a project to reconstruct dallas love field (airport) with modern, convenient air travel facilities. pursuant to a program development agreement (pda) with the city of dallas, the company is managing this project, and major construction is expected to commence during the first half of 2010, with completion scheduled for the second half of 2014. although subject to change, at the current time the project is expected to include the renovation of the airport airline terminals and complete replacement of gate facilities with a new 20-gate facility, including infrastructure, systems and equipment, aircraft parking apron, fueling system, roadways and terminal curbside, baggage handling systems, passenger loading bridges and support systems, and other supporting infrastructure. although several aspects of the project have not yet been agreed upon or finalized, the pda contemplates that, at the company request, the love field airport modernization corporation (or lfamc, a local government corporation under texas law formed by the city of dallas) would issue tax-exempt facility revenue bonds (lfmp bonds), the proceeds of which would be used: (1) to finance a significant portion of the ongoing costs of the lfmp; and (2) to reimburse the company for up to $75 million in early lfmp expenditures made from april 25, 2008, through the date of issuance of the lfmp bonds (such expenditures and reimbursement were authorized pursuant to a june 25, 2008 inducement resolution approved by the dallas city council). the pda provides for flexibility regarding the funding of the lfmp, and the parties to the pda are not locked in to the aforementioned preliminary funding plan. repayment of the lfmp bonds would be through the facilities payments described below. reimbursement of the company for its payment of facilities payments would be made through recurring ground rents, fees, and other revenues collected at the airport. it is also anticipated that the company would guarantee principal, premium (if any), and interest on the bonds. prior to any issuance of the lfmp bonds by the lfamc, the pda further contemplates that the company would enter into two separate funding agreements: (1) a facilities agreement pursuant to which the company would be obligated to make debt service payments on the principal and interest amounts associated with the lfmp bonds (facilities payments) that are issued, less other sources of funds the city of dallas may apply to the repayment of the lfmp bonds (including but not limited to passenger facility charges collected from passengers originating from the airport); and (2) a revenue credit agreement pursuant to which the city of dallas would reimburse the company for the facilities payments made by the company. a majority of the monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement are expected to originate from a reimbursement account created in the use and lease agreement that has been executed between the city of dallas and the company (a 20-year agreement providing for, among other things, the company lease of space at the airport from the city of dallas). the remainder of such monies is expected to originate from (1) use and lease agreements with other airlines, (2) various concession agreements, and (3) other airport miscellaneous revenues. the company liquidity could be impacted by the lfmp to the extent there is not a successful bond issuance, or there is a timing difference between the company payment of the facilities payments pursuant to the facilities agreement and the transfer of monies back to the company pursuant to the revenue credit agreement; however, the company does not currently anticipate the occurrence of these items. the lfmp is not expected to have a significant impact on the company capital resources or financial position. in 2007, the company board of directors authorized two separate programs for the repurchase of up to a total of $800 million of the company common stock $300 million authorized in march 2007, and $500 37 table of contents million authorized in may 2007. repurchases were made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. these programs, the last of which was completed during third quarter 2007, resulted in the repurchase of a total of approximately 53 million shares. during january 2008, the company board of directors authorized an additional program for the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company common stock. repurchases have been and will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. the company repurchased 4.4 million shares for a total of $54 million as part of this program through february 15, 2008; however, the company has not repurchased any additional shares from that date through the date of this filing. the company does not believe it is prudent to repurchase shares at the current time considering the unstable financial markets and volatile fuel prices. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2009, was $1.04 billion, compared to $963 million as of december 31, 2008. estimating the amount of tickets that will be refunded, exchanged, or forfeited involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of forfeited tickets. according to the company contract of carriage, tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. air traffic liability includes an estimate of the amount of future refunds and exchanges, net of forfeitures, for all unused tickets once the flight date has passed. these estimates are based on historical experience over many years. the company and other airlines have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from forfeited tickets at the date of travel. estimated future refunds and exchanges included in the air traffic liability account are constantly evaluated based on subsequent refund and exchange activity to validate the accuracy of the company estimates with respect to forfeited tickets. holding other factors constant, a ten-percent change in the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets during 2009 would have resulted in a $26 million, or .3 percent, change in passenger revenues recognized for that period. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture 38 table of contents experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, promotional fare activity, and the impact of the economic environment on customer behavior. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. the company estimation process resulted in no material adjustments being recorded during the years 2008 or 2007. during the fourth quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, as a result of the company efforts to stimulate demand through fare sales, passenger revenues consisted of a higher percentage of discount tickets flown and a lower percentage of fully refundable tickets flown. consequently, the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets recorded during 2009 was in a range of approximately 30 percent to 35 percent higher than what it believes its historical averages would indicate. the company believes these estimates are supported by actual data and are reasonable given the underlying fact patterns. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2009, the company had approximately $15.9 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $13.7 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 449 boeing 737 aircraft in the company active fleet at december 31, 2009, which are either owned or on capital lease, plus four older 737-300 aircraft that are not in active service. the remaining 88 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2009, are on operating lease. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated useful life estimated residual value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 10%-15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements 5 years or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market information, and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing). the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. when appropriate, the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses 39 table of contents associated with the use of the long-lived asset. while the airline industry as a whole has experienced many of these indicators, the company has continued to operate virtually all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce operating profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairment related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company fuel hedging program, and financial derivative instruments. all derivatives are required to be reflected at market (fair value) and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2009, the company was a party to over 600 financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for the years from 2010 through 2013. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009, not considering the impact of cash collateral deposits provided to counterparties, was a net liability of $477 million, compared to a liability of $992 million at december 31, 2008. the decrease in this liability primarily was due to an increase in energy prices throughout most of 2009, as well as the expiration (i.e., settlement in which the company paid cash to counterparties) of approximately $245 million in fuel derivative instruments that related to 2009. of the $477 million liability in fair value of fuel hedging financial derivative instruments at december 31, 2009, approximately $124 million is expected to settle or expire during 2010. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity prices, as has been evident in recent years. during 2008, market spot prices for crude oil peaked at a high of over $147 per barrel and hit a low price of under $35 per barrel both within a period of approximately five months. during 2009, these same prices ranged from a low of $33 per barrel to a high of $82 per barrel. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are both estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle, and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in recent years, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company estimates of the presumed effectiveness of its hedges made at the time the hedges were initially designated have materially differed from 40 table of contents actual results, resulting in increased volatility in the company periodic financial results. for example, historical data had been utilized in qualifying unleaded gasoline for hedge accounting under the presumption that derivatives of such commodity would result in effective hedges, as defined. this historical data is updated every quarterly reporting period to ascertain whether hedge accounting is allowed for every commodity the company uses in its hedging program. based on these updates, in certain prior periods, the company has in fact lost hedge accounting for all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments. at such times, the company has marked all such derivatives to market value in each quarterly period, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other (gains) losses, net in the consolidated statement of income. although commodities such as crude oil and heating oil have continued to qualify for hedge accounting in most cases, there have been instances in which the company has also lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for these commodities. in these instances, the company has also marked such derivatives to market value with changes reflected in the income statement each reporting period. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that crude oil and heating oil in most cases still qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. if recent volatility in these commodity markets continues for an extended period of time or worsens in the near future, the company could lose hedge accounting altogether for all crude oil and heating oil derivatives, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their values from period to period and thus determine their accounting treatment. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other gains and losses in the income statement in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the significant increase in the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during recent periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for protection. the number of instances in which the company has discontinued hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, has increased in recent years, primarily due to these reasons. depending on the level at which the company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the company hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued variability recorded in the income statement, and furthermore, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large dollar volumes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges. the current methodology used by the company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. 41 table of contents the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this methodology for estimating future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2009, 2008, and 2007, in accordance with the company interpretation of applicable gaap. the company also has not changed its method for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments, and forward jet fuel prices, would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. share-based compensation the company has previously awarded share-based compensation pursuant to plans covering the majority of its employee groups, including plans adopted via collective bargaining, a plan covering the company board of directors, and plans related to employment contracts with the chairman emeritus of the company. during 2009, the company recorded share-based compensation expense of $13 million, compared to $18 million in expense for 2008 and $37 million for 2007. the company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards. the company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant utilizing a modified black-scholes option pricing model. the black-scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of short-term traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. however, certain assumptions used in the black-scholes model, such as expected term, can be adjusted to incorporate the unique characteristics of the company stock option awards. option valuation models require the input of somewhat subjective assumptions including expected stock price volatility and expected term. in estimating expected stock price volatility at the time of a particular stock option grant, the company relies on observations of historical volatility trends, implied future volatility observations as determined by independent third parties, and implied volatility from traded options on the company stock. for 2009, 2008, and 2007 option grants, the company has consistently utilized a weighted-average approach that calculates expected volatility using two-thirds implied volatility and one-third historical volatility. in determining the expected term of the option grants, the company has observed the actual terms of prior grants with similar characteristics, the actual vesting schedule of the grant, and has assessed the expected risk tolerance of different optionee groups. other assumptions required for estimating fair value with the black-scholes model are the expected risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield of the company stock. the risk-free interest rates used were actual u.s. treasury zero-coupon rates for bonds matching the expected term of the option on the date of grant. the expected dividend yield of the company common stock over the expected term of the option on the date of grant was estimated based on the company current dividend yield, and adjusted for anticipated future changes. vesting terms for the company stock option plans differ based on the type of grant made and the group to which the options are granted. for grants made to employees under collective bargaining plans, vesting has ranged in length from immediate vesting to vesting periods in accordance with the period covered by the respective collective bargaining agreement. for grants to other employees, options generally vest and become fully exercisable over three, five, or ten years of continued employment, depending upon the grant type. for grants in any of the company plans that are subject to graded vesting over a service period, the company recognizes expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. none of the company grants include performance-based or market-based vesting conditions, as defined. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. 42 table of contents fair value measurements the company utilizes unobservable (level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2009, these included auction rate security investments, valued at $174 million, a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were a net asset of $140 million, and $8 million in other investments. all of the company auction rate security instruments are reflected at estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. in prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30-35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would have qualified as level 1. however, due to events in credit markets beginning during first quarter 2008, the auctions for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, the company has determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis or other type of valuation model as of december 31, 2009, which qualify as level 3. the company analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, and estimates of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction or return to par value. in association with this estimate of fair value, the company has recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of $17 million, with an offsetting entry to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). given the quality and backing of the company auction rate securities held, the fact that the company has not yet recorded a loss on the sale of any of these instruments, and the fact that it has been able to periodically sell instruments in the auction process, it believes it can continue to account for the estimated reduction in fair value of its remaining securities as temporary. these conclusions will also continue to be evaluated and challenged in subsequent periods. the company currently believes that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets for the majority of securities are almost entirely backed by the u.s. government. in addition, for the $99 million in instruments classified as available for sale, these auction rate securities represented less than four percent of the company total cash, cash equivalent, and investment balance at december 31, 2009, which it believes allows it sufficient time for the securities to return to full value. for the $75 million in instruments classified as trading securities, the company has entered into an agreement with the counterparty that allows the company to put the instruments back to the counterparty at full par value in june 2010. as part of this agreement, the company has entered into a line of credit in which it has received a $75 million loan that is secured by the auction rate security instruments from that counterparty. at the time of the first failed auctions during first quarter 2008, the company held a total of $463 million in securities. since that time, the company has been able to sell $272 million of these instruments at par value, in addition to the $75 million subject to the agreement to be sold at par in june 2010. the company is also in discussions with other counterparties to determine whether mutually agreeable terms can be reached regarding the effective repurchase of its remaining securities. the company determines the value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing a standard option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. in situations where the company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. the company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily volatility), the company has categorized these option contracts as level 3. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, any changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the period in which the expected cash flow impacts earnings. any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that are ineffective, as defined, or do not qualify for special hedge accounting, are reflected in 43 table of contents earnings within other (gains)/losses, net , in the period of the change. because the company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the company derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the company financial statements. in addition, the company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the company) to provide cash collateral when the fair values of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the company outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the company estimate of fair values. frequent flyer accounting the company utilizes estimates in its recognition of liabilities associated with its frequent flyer program. these estimates include the liability associated with frequent flyer awards that have been issued, are outstanding, and are expected to be redeemed at a future date, and amounts associated with frequent flyer credits sold to companies participating in its rapid rewards frequent flyer program. a customer must earn a minimum of 16 frequent flyer credits in order to attain a round-trip award, and these credits cannot be utilized for any other type of product or service from the company. in addition, once earned, a frequent flyer credit remains active and in the customer account for up to 24 months before expiration. once a customer earns their 16 th frequent flyer credit, a round-trip award is automatically issued to the customer, which can then be utilized for any destination available on southwest, for up to a twelve month period before it expires. this standard award is subject to seat restrictions depending on the availability on a particular flight. if a customer accumulates two standard awards, they can be converted into a freedom award, which is free of seat restrictions except for a limited number of black-out dates around major holidays. the company utilizes the incremental cost method of accounting for frequent flyer awards issued from flight credits earned in the company rapid rewards frequent flyer program. as such, the company records a liability and reduction of passenger revenue for the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel at the time an award is earned. the liability recorded by the company represents the total number of awards expected to be redeemed by customers. the estimated incremental cost of an award includes direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. the company does not record a liability for partially earned customer awards, although it expects that a portion of these partially earned awards will eventually turn into full awards. at december 31, 2009, the company had approximately 10.3 million full or partial awards outstanding, of which approximately 7.9 million were partially earned awards. considering historical and expected future spoilage of both flight credits and awards, the company estimates that a liability associated with partially earned awards would not be material to the company financial position at december 31, 2009, utilizing the incremental cost method of accounting for such awards. the company also sells frequent flyer credits and related services to companies participating in its frequent flyer program. funds received from the sale of flight segment credits are accounted for under the residual method. under this method, the company has estimated that approximately 75 percent of the amount received per flight segment credit sold relates to free travel, and the remaining 25 percent associated with items such as access to the company frequent flyer program population for marketing/solicitation purposes, use of the company logo on co-branded credit cards, and other trademarks, designs, images, etc. of the company for use in marketing materials. this apportionment of value between free travel and marketing services is estimated based on several factors, including fares, the habits of customers in redeeming awards for free travel, and the contractual rate paid by companies for the flight segment credits. the amount estimated to be associated with free travel has historically been in a range of 75 percent to 82 percent. the estimated amounts associated with travel are deferred and recognized as passenger revenue when the travel is estimated to be flown, along with the portion that expires unused. for the portion of funds received that is deemed not to be associated with future 44 table of contents travel, the company has determined that the period earned is the period in which the company has fulfilled its obligation under the contract signed with the particular business partner, which is on a monthly or quarterly basis, upon sale, as the related marketing services are performed or provided. the vast majority of these marketing services consist of the access granted, either monthly or quarterly, to various lists of the company frequent flyer members. the estimated amount that is not associated with free travel is recognized in other revenue in the period earned. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the liabilities associated with its frequent flyer program would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program. in addition, the sale-leaseback transactions entered into by the company in december 2008 and in 2009 for a total of 16 aircraft, have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company also operates 97 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, except for the 16 aircraft that were sold and leased back in 2008 and 2009, the remainder of the company leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. hedging the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.4 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2010. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $14 million per year, excluding any impact of the company derivative instruments. as of december 31, 2008, the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that effectively represented a hedge of approximately ten percent of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2010 through 2013. prior to fourth quarter 2008, the company had held fuel derivative instruments for a significant portion of its anticipated fuel purchases for these years; however, due to a precipitous decline in fuel prices, the company significantly reduced its hedge in order to minimize fuel hedging losses related to further oil price declines and to minimize the potential for the company to provide additional cash collateral deposits to counterparties. the company accomplished this reduced hedge by entering into additional derivative contracts through selling primarily fixed-price swap derivatives. the company believes this strategy enabled it to participate in further price declines via the sold derivatives, which materially offset further declines in value of the company previously purchased derivatives. subsequently, in 2009, the company again added to its hedging position related to future years expected fuel purchases. the total net fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2009, was a net liability of $147 million. this balance consists of a net liability of the market value of fuel derivative instruments totaling $477 million, net of $330 million in cash collateral that has been provided by the company to its counterparties. the current portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $32 million, net of cash collateral 45 table of contents provided, is classified as a component of accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. the long-term portion of these financial derivative instruments, or $115 million, net of cash collateral provided, is included in other deferred liabilities. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate ten-percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2009 (for all years from 2010 through 2013), prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by up to approximately $217 million. fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2009, levels, except underlying futures prices. the company credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company at the reporting date. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2009, the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or is posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. the following table provides the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2009, at which such postings are triggered: counterparty (cp) (in millions) a b c d e total fair value of fuel derivatives $ (199 ) $ (300 ) $ (27 ) $ 18 $ 30 $ (478 ) cash collateral held by cp 205 125 330 aircraft collateral pledged to cp 183 183 if credit rating is investment grade, fair value of fuel derivative level at which: cash is provided to cp 0 to (300 ) 0 to (125 ) &gt;(75 ) &gt;(75 ) n/a or &gt;(700 ) or &gt;(582 ) cash is received from cp &gt;40 &gt;150 &gt;200 *** &gt;125 n/a aircraft is pledged to cp (300) to (700 ) (125) to (582 ) n/a n/a n/a if credit rating is non-investment grade, fair value of fuel derivative level at which: cash is provided to cp 0 to (300 ) 0 to (125 ) zero * zero * zero ** or &gt;(700 ) or &gt;(582 ) cash is received from cp zero * zero * zero * zero * zero ** aircraft is pledged to cp (300) to (700 ) (125) to (582 ) n/a n/a n/a * cash collateral is provided at 100 percent of fair value of fuel derivative contracts. ** if either party is rated below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, a cash collateral agreement would be negotiated with the cp. *** thresholds may vary based on changes in credit ratings within investment grade. 46 table of contents at december 31, 2009, of the $330 million in cash collateral deposits with the above counterparties under these bilateral collateral provisions, $238 million has been netted against noncurrent fuel derivative instruments within other deferred liabilities and $92 million has been netted against current fuel derivative instruments within accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. due to the terms of the company current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties, in the company judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, even if market prices for the commodities used in the company fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 50 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2009, given the company current fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would have to provide an additional $355 million in cash collateral to its current counterparties. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company also has a cash collateral agreement with one of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements. under this agreement, if the aggregate fair value of interest rate swaps outstanding is a liability, the company becomes obligated to post collateral for the value of the liability in excess of $50 million. if the aggregate fair value of interest rate swaps outstanding is an asset, the counterparty becomes obligated to post collateral to the company for the value of the asset in excess of $250 million. if either party credit rating were lowered to below investment grade, 100 percent cash collateral is required for both parties. as of december 31, 2009, the fair value of interest rate swap agreements outstanding with this counterparty was a net liability of $7 million, thus no collateral amounts had been posted. with other counterparties to which the company has interest rate swap agreements, no cash collateral is required as long as credit ratings remain at investment grade. if either party credit rating were lowered to below investment grade, the threshold amount at which cash collateral is required for both parties would become zero, or in one case, the parties would then negotiate an agreement. with each of these other counterparties, the net fair value of the interest rate swap agreements outstanding at december 31, 2009, was either an asset to the company or was immaterial. due to the significance of the company fuel hedging program and the emphasis that it places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch and standard &amp; poor s, and a baa3 credit rating with moody as of december 31, 2009. the company's 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings were originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. this includes the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, the $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027, the $400 million 10.5% secured notes due 2011, and the $300 million 5.75% senior unsecured notes due 2016. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. 47 table of contents excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had no fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding at december 31, 2009. the following table displays the characteristics of the company secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2009: principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 124 6.840 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 332 6.640 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 600 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $2.0 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 5.2 years at floating rates averaging 5.4 percent for the twelve months ended december 31, 2009. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 13.3 percent and 18.4 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2009. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.1 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $1.5 billion, at december 31, 2009. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, auction rate securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. however, as a result of turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical ten percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2009, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2009, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical ten percent change in those rates would correspondingly change the company net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $7 million. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2009, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a ten percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2009, the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. two of the company hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings 48 table of contents triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company credit rating falls below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparties. as of december 31, 2009, there was no cash posted with these counterparties. the company was in a net fuel hedge liability position with one of these counterparties at december 31, 2009. assuming its credit rating were below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $27 million in cash collateral deposits with that counterparty. the company currently has processing agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor would have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2009, the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors general company risk factors the company business has continued to be significantly impacted by fuel prices, which can be extremely volatile; therefore, the company strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company ability to effectively address fuel prices. fuel price volatility continues to present one of the company most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel, which has been at historically high levels over the last few years, is largely unpredictable; and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. fuel prices are unpredictable, in part, because of many external factors that are beyond the company control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited refining capacity; (iii) changes in governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, and marketing; and (iv) changes in exchange rates. likewise, the company ability to react to fuel price volatility can be affected by factors outside of its control. for example, the company profitability is affected in part by its ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases are difficult to implement in difficult economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the company ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as its low fares reputation, the portion of its customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. jet fuel and oil consumed for 2010 and 2009 represented approximately 33 percent and 30 percent of the company operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the second largest expense incurred by the company in both years. as a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the company growth plans and strategic initiatives. 17 table of contents as discussed above under company operations impact of fuel costs, the company has historically entered into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs; however, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the company must also continually monitor and adjust its fuel hedge portfolio and strategies to address fuel price volatility. these types of adjustments in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, have historically significantly affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the company results of operations. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company fuel hedging arrangements and the impact of hedge accounting on the company results of operations are discussed in more detail under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; a return of unfavorable economic conditions or an increase in economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company results of operations. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, which affect customer travel patterns and related revenues. for example, during 2008 and most of 2009, the company results of operations were negatively affected when unfavorable u.s. economic conditions drove changes in travel patterns and resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel was an expendable discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers had the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses were able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or were more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions also hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. although u.s. economic conditions improved during 2010, some uncertainty has remained. a return to unfavorable economic conditions, or even an increase in economic uncertainty, could again negatively affect the company results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. the company low cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled the company to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company low cost structure has become increasingly important as the company has controlled capacity growth. while the company has in the past been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination of capacity control and increasing costs has contributed to an increase in the company costs per available seat mile. the company has limited control, however, over increases in many of its costs. for example, the company has limited control over costs associated with fuel, labor, aircraft airframe and engine repairs, and regulatory compliance. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 33 percent of the company operating expenses during 2010, and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the first risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 33 percent of the company operating expenses during 2010. the company ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have impacted the company low cost competitive position. as discussed further under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, have had pay scale increases as a result of increased seniority and contractual rate increases. in addition, as discussed under business-regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. furthermore, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airports costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which has resulted in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. 18 table of contents as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, the company could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, in the event of an accident or other incident involving company aircraft, the company could be responsible for costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain its current level of low cost advantage. in response to volatile fuel prices and the recent economic downturn, some of the company competitors have taken additional efficiency and cost reduction measures, such as capacity cuts and headcount reductions, which have reduced the company cost advantage. prior to the recent economic downturn, some of the company competitors took advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, to decrease operating costs through renegotiated labor, supply, and financing agreements. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported resulting significant expected cost synergies. the company results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement its revenue and other initiatives. the company has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing costs led to the company decision to curtail organic growth during 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010 and for the indefinite future. in addition, organic growth has become increasingly difficult, because (i) the number of domestic opportunities has declined, (ii) the company currently does not operate internationally, and (iii) the company is facing an increased presence of other low cost carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the success of revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be impacted by (i) the company ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. the company cannot ensure the timing of implementation of certain of its initiatives or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company information systems could materially adversely affect the company operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations, as well as to support its initiatives. as discussed above under business operating strategies and initiatives management information systems, during 2010, the company continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. among other things, the company completed the implementation of a new sap enterprise resource planning application, which replaced several of the company back office legacy systems such as the general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems. the company has also invested in significant technology changes necessary to support its new rapid rewards frequent flyer program, enhanced southwest.com website, and wifi implementation. in addition, the company has announced its intent to replace its reservation system. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. 19 table of contents in the ordinary course of business, the company systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements. the company operations could be adversely affected if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company credit ratings and can also negatively impact the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company liquidity generally. during 2009, the company credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and the volatile fuel price environment. while the company credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively impact (i) the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade would subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from either of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts. although the company is able to purchase some of these aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, the company operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies it currently achieves by operating a single fleet type, currently outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft strategy. the company is also dependent on a sole supplier for aircraft engines and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with its engines. the company business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 33 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2010. in addition, as of december 31, 2010, approximately 82 percent of the company employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees representatives; however, new labor contracts contribute to the company cost pressures. increasing labor costs, combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company competitive position. in addition, if the company is successful in its efforts to acquire airtran, employee integration could be difficult, which could negatively affect the company historically positive employee culture. 20 table of contents the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially impacted the demand for air travel and have also resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company results of operations may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; changes to environmental regulations; increases in taxes; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, or other customer service standards; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company results of operations. in addition, when the airline industry shrinks, airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company business strategies. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is impacted by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; 21 table of contents outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to capacity, pricing, routes, scheduling, customer service, cost structure, and codesharing and similar activities. risk factors related to the company proposed acquisition of airtran on september 26, 2010, the company entered into a merger agreement providing for the company acquisition of airtran. set forth below are risk factors related to the merger. the merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on the company or that could delay or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the merger. before the merger may be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust laws and various approvals, consents or clearances may be required to be obtained from regulatory entities. in deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the merger on competition within their relevant jurisdictions. the terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the company business following the merger. there can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the company following the merger. in addition, there can be no assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. any delay in completing the merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved thereunder. in addition to the required regulatory clearances and approval by airtran stockholders, the merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond the company and airtran control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. the company cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. any delay in completing the merger could cause the company not to realize some or all of the synergies and other benefits that it expects to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees of airtran which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the company following the merger. the company and airtran are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. the company success after the merger will depend in part 22 table of contents upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees of airtran. current and prospective employees of airtran may experience uncertainty about their roles within the company following the merger, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of the company to retain key management and other key personnel. accordingly, no assurance can be given that the company will be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees of airtran. several lawsuits have been filed against the company and airtran challenging the merger, and one or more adverse rulings may prevent the merger from being completed. the company and airtran, as well as certain officers of airtran and the members of airtran board of directors, were named as defendants in several lawsuits brought by airtran stockholders challenging the proposed merger and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms. additional lawsuits may be filed against the company, airtran, or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. these lawsuits are discussed in more detail below under item 3. legal proceedings. one of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no order issued by a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction or law or other legal restraint or prohibition making the merger illegal or permanently restraining, enjoining, or otherwise prohibiting or preventing the consummation of the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement be in effect. consequently, if the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying, or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants ability to complete the merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. while the company believes that each of the four currently pending lawsuits is without merit, the parties to two of such suits entered into a memorandum of understanding ( mou ) on january 26, 2011 to settle those lawsuits. the settlement provides for the inclusion of additional disclosures with respect to various aspects of the merger in the proxy statement/prospectus to be sent to airtran stockholders soliciting approval of the merger. in addition, it provides for the payment of plaintiffs attorneys fees and expenses, subject to court approval. the mou further provides that the parties will enter into a stipulation of settlement which will provide, among other things, for the conditional certification of a settlement class. the mou and stipulation of settlement are subject to various conditions, including court approval following notice to airtran stockholders, completion of certain discovery, and consummation of the merger. if the settlement is finally approved, it will resolve and release on behalf of the entire class of airtran stockholders, all claims that were or could have been brought challenging any aspect of the merger, the merger agreement, and any disclosure made in connection therewith, among other claims. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of the company. if the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of the company may be adversely affected, and the company will be subject to several risks, including the following: having to pay certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; and having had the focus of company management on the merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the company. if the merger is not completed, there can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect the business, financial results and stock price of the company. 23 table of contents the company may be unable to integrate airtran business successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. in addition, as discussed above under business company operations cost structure, a key component of the company current business strategy is its low cost structure, which is, in part, facilitated by the company reliance upon a single aircraft type. the company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of airtran. potential difficulties the company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the airtran business with that of the company in a manner that permits the company to achieve the net synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; the challenges associated with operating an aircraft type new to the company, the boeing 717; the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of the company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; integrating the company workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the company currently anticipates and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger, including one-time cash costs to integrate airtran business that may exceed the approximately $500 million of one-time acquisition and integration costs that the company currently anticipates. in addition, the company and airtran have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in: diversion of the attention of the company management and other employees; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the company ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the company ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or the company ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or could reduce the company earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company following the merger. the need to integrate airtran workforce following the merger presents the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, increased labor costs or labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations. the successful integration of airtran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the merger depend significantly on integrating airtran employees into the company and on maintaining productive employee relations. failure to do so presents the potential for delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration, increased labor costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations. the company and airtran are both highly unionized companies. the process for integrating labor groups in an airline merger is governed by a combination of the railway labor act ( rla ), the mccaskill-bond act, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company collective bargaining agreements and union policies. under the mccaskill-bond act, seniority integration must be accomplished in a fair and equitable manner consistent with the process set forth in sections 3 and 13 of the allegheny-mohawk labor protective provisions. 24 table of contents such process consists first of direct negotiations between the incumbent unions with the assistance of the companies and second, if integration cannot be achieved through agreement, submitting the seniority integration to binding arbitration by a neutral arbitrator. for employee groups having the same representative at both carriers, the mccaskill-bond act provides that seniority integration be accomplished pursuant to the union internal policies if such policies exist, which may, depending upon the internal policies, require arbitration. employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation or arbitration, which in some cases could delay implementation. under the rla, the national mediation board ( nmb ) has exclusive authority to resolve representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. the disputes that the nmb has authority to resolve include (i) whether the merger has created a single transportation system for representation purposes; (ii) determination of the appropriate craft or class for representational purposes, including a determination of which positions are to be included within a particular craft or class; and (iii) certification of the system-wide representative organization, if any, for each craft or class at the company following the merger. pending operational integration, it will be necessary to maintain a fence between employee groups, during which time the company and airtran will keep the employee groups separate, each carrier applying the terms of its own existing collective bargaining agreements, unless other terms have been negotiated. before full integration of the employee groups, the company may also seek to negotiate transition agreements with its unions that modify existing collective bargaining agreements to address circumstances unique to the transition process. prior to the completion of the merger, there is a risk of litigation or arbitration by unions or individual employees that could result in monetary damages on the basis that the merger either violates a provision of an existing collective bargaining agreement or an obligation under the rla or other applicable law. the unions or individual employees might also pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the merger. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the company or airtran normal operations, whether in opposition to the merger or in an attempt to pressure the companies in collective bargaining negotiations. although the rla generally makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released by the nmb to pursue self-help, and the company and airtran might be able to seek injunctive relief or other remedies against premature self-help, such actions could cause significant harm even if the company or airtran were ultimately to be successful. the company will assume airtran indebtedness upon consummation of the merger, which additional indebtedness may limit the company financial and operating flexibility following the merger. upon consummation of the merger, the company will assume or be indirectly responsible for airtran outstanding indebtedness and become subject to the operating restrictions under the debt instruments governing such indebtedness. airtran has significant indebtedness and other commitments including aircraft purchase commitments, significant debt and lease obligations related to existing purchased and leased aircraft, and debt and lease obligations for existing and planned operating facilities. the increased indebtedness of the company following the merger may: require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments and operating lease payments, thereby reducing the availability of the company cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; limit the company ability to obtain additional financing for aircraft purchases, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes; 25 table of contents limit the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the airline industry and, consequently, negatively affect the company competitive position; and negatively impact the company existing credit ratings, including resulting in a downgrade or negative outlook. in addition, covenants in the debt instruments governing this indebtedness may limit how the company conducts its business following the merger. the combined company ability to use airtran net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of the merger, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of december 31, 2010, airtran had federal net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $477 million available to offset future taxable income, which are not currently subject to an annual limitation under section 382 of the internal revenue code (the code ). the nols expire between 2017 and 2030. the combined company ability to utilize the airtran nols may be limited if airtran undergoes an ownership change, as defined in section 382 of the code. an ownership change could be triggered by substantial changes in the ownership of the outstanding stock of airtran. an ownership change would occur if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of airtran stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change. the merger is currently expected to result in an ownership change of airtran for purposes of section 382 of the code. section 382 of the code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income that may be offset with pre-ownership change nols of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. the limitation imposed by section 382 of the code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. the combined company use of nols arising after the date of an ownership change would not be limited unless the combined company were to experience a subsequent ownership change. the combined company ability to use the nols will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. the nols may expire before the combined company can generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the nols. the company future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger. following the merger, the size of the business of the company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either the company or airtran businesses. the company future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. 26 table of contents the company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the merger and the integration of airtran business. the company is expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and the integration of airtran business. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, flight operations, marketing and benefits. while the company has assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that would be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses likely will result in the company taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. following the merger, the company will need to launch certain branding or rebranding initiatives that may take a significant amount of time and involve substantial costs and that may not be favorably received by customers. the company may incur substantial costs in rebranding airtran products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the southwest brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by airtran in any of airtran markets. the failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the company ability to attract and retain customers after the merger, which could cause the company not to realize some or all of the benefits contemplated to result from the merger. airtran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against airtran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company operating results following the merger. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. ( delta ) and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleges, among other things, that airtran conspired with delta in imposing bag fees for the first item of checked luggage. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. subsequent to the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; las vegas, nevada; and oakland, california. all of the cases were consolidated before a single judge in atlanta. an amended complaint filed in february 2010 in the consolidated action broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran also agreed to cut capacity on competitive routes and raised prices. the amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities and also seeks attorneys fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed that portion of the plaintiffs claims alleging that airtran had violated section 2 of the sherman act; however, the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee. in addition, the las vegas and oakland cases have been voluntarily dismissed. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the amended complaint, and has indicated its intention to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company operations following the merger and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. 27 table of contents the application of the acquisition method of accounting will likely result in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company financial results. applicable acquisition accounting rules require that to the extent the purchase price exceeds the net fair value of airtran tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, the company would record such excess as goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. impairment charges could be recorded in the company results of operations as a result of, among other items, extreme fuel price volatility, a significant decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. operating cash generated is used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash flows used in investing activities in 2010 totaled $1.3 billion, versus $1.6 billion used in 2009. investing activities in both years included payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 11 new 737-700 aircraft in 2010 versus the purchase of 13 737-700s in 2009. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2010 and 2009 also reflect $772 million and $986 million, respectively, related to changes in the balance of the company short-term investments. the company increased its short-term investments in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher overall cash balances and in order to seek higher returns on its cash holdings. net cash used in financing activities was $149 million in 2010. during 2010, the company repaid $155 million in debt and capital lease obligations that came due, and also repaid $44 million from a credit line borrowing associated with auction rate security instruments that were redeemed back to its counterparty. net cash provided by financing activities was $330 million in 2009. during 2009, the company raised $381 million from the sale and leaseback of 11 737-700 aircraft, and borrowed $332 million and $124 million under secured term loan arrangements. also during 2009, the company repaid the $400 million it had borrowed during 2008 under its revolving credit agreement. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt and note 6 for more information on the company revolving credit arrangement. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments the company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 12 boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2010, 11 of which were new aircraft purchased from boeing and one of which was leased from a third party. the company also brought back its four 737-300 aircraft that had been removed from active service and put into storage during 2009, and retired five older leased and owned 737-300 aircraft from service during 2010. as of january 19, 2011, the company had firm orders with boeing for a total of 88 737-700 aircraft and 20 737-800 aircraft for the years 2011 through 2016. the firm orders for the 20 737-800 aircraft are a result of the company decision to substitute this aircraft type for 737-700s that had been previously ordered for 2012. the company also had purchase options for 37 737-700 aircraft from 2013 through 2017, with an additional 98 purchase rights for 737-700 aircraft through 2021 (as further described in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the company also has the option to substitute 737-600s for the 737-700s ordered from boeing with at least 18 months notice prior to the contractual delivery date, and can substitute 737-800s for the 737-700s with at least twelve months notice. the leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) effectively provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and 50 table of contents expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as of december 31, 2010, the company operated 97 leased aircraft, of which 92 are under operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $234 million at december 31, 2010. the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2010: obligations by period (in millions) contractual obligations 2011 2012 - 2013 2014 - 2015 beyond 2015 total long-term debt (1) $ 505 $ 605 $ 584 $ 1,591 $ 3,285 interest commitments - fixed (2) 81 147 123 186 537 interest commitments - floating (3) 66 67 84 125 342 operating lease commitments 386 747 524 886 2,543 aircraft purchase commitments (4) 594 1,377 1,265 540 3,776 other commitments 78 119 7 717 921 total contractual obligations $ 1,710 $ 3,062 $ 2,587 $ 4,045 $ 11,404 (1) includes principal only (2) related to fixed-rate debt only (3) interest obligations associated with floating-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) is estimated utilizing forward interest rate curves as of december 31, 2010, and can be subject to significant fluctuation. (4) firm orders from boeing as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, a portion of the consideration to be paid by the company in connection with its planned acquisition of airtran will be in cash. the company intends to fund up to $670 million in cash consideration to airtran stockholders out of cash on hand upon closing of the acquisition, which is expected to occur during second quarter 2011. the company also expects to incur approximately $500 million in integration and closing costs associated with the acquisition, a portion of which are expected to be in 2011, and which are expected to be funded with cash. the company believes that its current liquidity position, including cash and short-term investments of $3.5 billion as of december 31, 2010, anticipated future internally generated funds from operations, and its fully available, unsecured revolving credit facility of $600 million, will enable it to fund the acquisition without adding significant further borrowings. additionally, as discussed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements and as set forth above in the contractual obligations table, the company has long term debt maturities of $400 million in december 2011 and $385 million in march 2012. the company will continue to consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize liquidity and supplement cash requirements as needed. the company believes it has access to financing arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability, which should enable it to meet its ongoing capital, operating, and other liquidity requirements. as of december 31, 2010, the book value of the company unencumbered aircraft totaled approximately $6.6 billion. during 2008, the city of dallas approved the love field modernization program (lfmp), a project to reconstruct dallas love field (airport) with modern, convenient air travel facilities. pursuant to a program development agreement (pda) with the city of dallas and the love field airport modernization corporation 51 table of contents (or lfamc, a texas non-profit local government corporation established by the city to act on the city behalf to facilitate the development of the lfmp), the company is managing this project. major construction commenced during 2010, with completion of the project scheduled for the second half of 2014. although subject to change, at the current time the project is expected to include the renovation of the airport airline terminals and complete replacement of gate facilities with a new 20-gate facility, including infrastructure, systems and equipment, aircraft parking apron, fueling system, roadways and terminal curbside, baggage handling systems, passenger loading bridges and support systems, and other supporting infrastructure. during fourth quarter 2010, the lfamc issued $310 million in tax-exempt facility revenue bonds (lfmp bonds), the proceeds of which have been or will be used: (1) to finance a significant portion of the ongoing costs of the lfmp; and (2) to reimburse the company for approximately $80 million in early lfmp expenditures made from april 25, 2008, through the date of issuance of the lfmp bonds (such expenditures and reimbursement were authorized pursuant to a june 25, 2008 inducement resolution approved by the dallas city council and subsequent resolutions by the lfamc). repayment of the lfmp bonds will be through the facilities payments described below. reimbursement of the company for its payment of facilities payments are expected to be made through recurring ground rents, fees, and other revenues collected at the airport. the company has guaranteed principal, premium, and interest on the issued bonds. depending on funding needs and the timing of these funds from other sources, an additional tranche of bonds will likely be issued prior to the completion of the lfmp project. it is currently expected that the total amount spent on the lfmp project will be approximately $519 million. prior to the issuance of the lfmp bonds by the lfamc, the company entered into two separate funding agreements: (1) a facilities agreement pursuant to which the company is obligated to make debt service payments on the principal and interest amounts associated with the lfmp bonds (facilities payments), less other sources of funds the city of dallas may apply to the repayment of the lfmp bonds (including but not limited to passenger facility charges collected from passengers originating from the airport); and (2) a revenue credit agreement pursuant to which the city of dallas will reimburse the company for the facilities payments made by the company. a majority of the monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement are expected to originate from a reimbursement account created in the use and lease agreement between the city of dallas and the company. the use and lease agreement is a 20-year agreement providing for, among other things, the company lease of space at the airport from the city of dallas. the remainder of such monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement is expected to originate from (1) use and lease agreements with other airlines, (2) various concession agreements, and (3) other airport miscellaneous revenues. the company liquidity could be impacted by the lfmp to the extent there is not an additional future successful bond issuance, or there is a timing difference between the company payment of the facilities payments pursuant to the facilities agreement and the transfer of monies back to the company pursuant to the revenue credit agreement; however, the company does not currently anticipate the occurrence of either of these items. the lfmp is not expected to have a significant impact on the company capital resources or financial position. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information and accounting requirements related to the lfmp. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and 52 table of contents changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. the company air traffic liability balance at december 31, 2010, was $1.2 billion, compared to $1.0 billion as of december 31, 2009. the company estimates the amount of tickets that will expire unused and recognizes such amounts in passenger revenue once the scheduled flight date has passed. estimating the amount of tickets that will expire unused, be refunded, or exchanged involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of the company tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of unused tickets. according to the company contract of carriage, tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. estimates of tickets that will expire unused are based on historical experience over many years. the company and other airlines have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from unused tickets at the date of travel. holding other factors constant, a 10 percent change in the company estimate of the amount of tickets that will expire unused would have resulted in a $26 million, or .2 percent, change in passenger revenues recognized for 2010. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, changes to the company ticketing policies, the company refund and exchange policy, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, promotional fare activity, and the impact of the economic environment on customer behavior. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. during 2009, as a result of the company efforts to stimulate demand through fare sales, passenger revenues consisted of a higher percentage of discount tickets flown and a lower percentage of fully refundable tickets flown. consequently, the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets recorded during 2009 was in a range of approximately 30 to 35 percent higher than what it believes its historical averages would indicate. the company believes these estimates are supported by actual data and are reasonable given the underlying fact patterns. during 2008 and 2010, the company believes the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets recorded were closer to what historical trends would indicate. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets as of december 31, 2010, the company had approximately $16.3 billion (at cost) of long-lived assets, including $14.0 billion (at cost) in flight equipment and related assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 53 table of contents 456 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2010, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 92 boeing 737 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2010, are operated under operating leases. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and their future expected cash flows. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values of these groups: estimated useful life estimated residual value aircraft and engines 23 to 25 years 10%-15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% leasehold improvements asset life or lease term 0% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market information, and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing) as well as the aircraft age. the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both its historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to the company maintenance program, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense, as required by gaap. for example, during third quarter 2010, the company changed the estimated residual values of its entire remaining fleet of owned 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft. based on current and expected future market conditions related to these aircraft, the company reduced the residual values of these aircraft from approximately 15 percent of original cost to approximately 10 percent of original cost. this determination was made due to the lack of buyers for these older aircraft, as many buyers of used aircraft prefer newer, more fuel efficient models, and the increase in the number of airlines retiring these older aircraft, which has effectively flooded the market. as this reduction in residual value is considered a change in estimate, it has been accounted for on a prospective basis, and thus the company will record additional depreciation expense over the remainder of the useful lives for each aircraft. the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. the company has continued to operate virtually all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce operating profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairment related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these 54 table of contents risk management activities, and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company fuel hedging program and financial derivative instruments. all derivatives are required to be reflected at fair value and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2010, the company was a party to over 600 financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for the years 2011 through 2014. the fair value of the company fuel hedging financial derivative instruments recorded on the company consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2010, not considering the impact of cash collateral deposits provided to counterparties, was a net asset of $142 million, compared to a net liability of $477 million at december 31, 2009. the change in fair value primarily was due to an increase in energy prices throughout most of 2010, the expiration (i.e., settlement in which the company paid cash to counterparties) of approximately $153 million in fuel derivative instruments that related to 2010, and the purchase of new derivative positions that will settle in future periods. although the company fuel derivative portfolio was in a net asset position at december 31, 2010, the positions that are expected to settle or expire during 2011 currently consist of a net liability of approximately $62 million. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity prices, as has been evident in recent years. for example, during 2008, market spot prices for crude oil peaked at a high of over $147 per barrel and hit a low price of under $35 per barrel both within a period of approximately five months. during 2010, market spot prices ranged from a low of $68 per barrel to a high of $91 per barrel. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, value of the u.s. dollar, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in some historical periods, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company has in fact lost hedge accounting for all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments. at such times, the company has marked all such derivatives to fair value in each quarterly period, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other (gains) losses, net in the consolidated statement of income. however, the company did not lose hedge accounting for any entire commodities during 2010, 2009, or 2008. although commodities such as crude oil and heating oil have historically continued to qualify for hedge accounting in most cases, there have been instances in which the company has also lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for these commodities. in these instances, the company has also marked such derivatives to fair value with changes reflected in the consolidated statement of income each reporting period. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that the commodities used in most cases still qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. increased volatility in these commodity markets for an extended period of time, especially if such 55 table of contents volatility were to worsen, could cause the company to lose hedge accounting altogether for the commodities used in its fuel hedging program, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their fair values from period to period and thus determine their accounting treatment. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result. this could result in the immediate recording of noncash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other gains and losses in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the recent volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has historically resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in fair value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during historical periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for mitigation of fuel price volatility. the discontinuation of hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, can also be a result of these reasons. depending on the level at which the company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the company hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued variability recorded in the consolidated statement of income, and furthermore, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large dollar volumes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting expected future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges. the current methodology used by the company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this methodology for estimating expected future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2010, 2009, and 2008, and has not changed for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. fair value measurements the company utilizes unobservable (level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2010, these included auction rate security investments, valued at $93 million, a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were a net asset of $685 million, and $5 million in other investments. 56 table of contents all of the company auction rate security instruments are reflected at estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. in prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30-35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would have qualified as level 1. however, due to events in credit markets beginning during first quarter 2008, the auctions for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, the company has determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis or other type of valuation model, which qualify the instruments as level 3. the company analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, and estimates of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction or return to par value. in association with this estimate of fair value, the company has recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of $17 million, with an offsetting entry to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). given the quality and backing of the company auction rate securities held, the fact that the company has not yet recorded a loss on the sale of any of these instruments, and the fact that it has been able to periodically sell instruments in the auction process, it believes it can continue to account for the estimated reduction in fair value of its remaining securities as temporary. these conclusions will also continue to be evaluated and challenged in subsequent periods. the company currently believes that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets for the majority of securities are almost entirely backed by the u.s. government. in addition, these auction rate securities represented less than three percent of the company total cash, cash equivalent, and investment balance at december 31, 2010, which the company believes allows it sufficient time for the auction rate securities to return to full value. at the time of the first failed auctions during first quarter 2008, the company held a total of $463 million in auction rate securities. since that time, the company has been able to sell $353 million of these instruments at par value. the company also remains in discussions with its remaining counterparties to determine whether mutually agreeable terms can be reached regarding the effective repurchase of its remaining securities. the company determines the value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing a standard option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. in situations where the company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. the company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily volatility), the company has categorized these option contracts as level 3. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, any changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the period in which the expected cash flow impacts earnings. any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that are ineffective, as defined, or that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are reflected in earnings within other (gains) losses, net, in the period of the change. because the company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the company derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the company financial statements. in addition, the company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the company) to provide cash collateral when the fair value of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the company outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the company estimate of fair values. 57 table of contents frequent flyer accounting the company utilizes estimates in its recognition of liabilities associated with its frequent flyer program. these estimates include the liability associated with frequent flyer awards that have been issued, are outstanding, and are expected to be redeemed at a future date, amounts associated with partially earned awards that are expected to turn into fully earned awards and be redeemed at a future date, and amounts associated with frequent flyer credits sold to companies participating in its rapid rewards frequent flyer program. the company utilizes the incremental cost method of accounting for frequent flyer awards issued and for partially earned awards (i.e., flight credits) earned in the company rapid rewards frequent flyer program. the term partial award refers to flight credits earned by customers for flights taken that in the aggregate are less than the amount needed to earn a frequent flyer award. the company records a liability and reduction of passenger revenue for the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel as frequent flyer awards and partially earned awards are being earned. the liability recorded by the company represents the total number of awards and partially earned awards expected to be redeemed by customers. the estimated incremental cost of these liabilities include direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. prior to 2010, the company did not record a liability for partially earned customer awards. however, effective january 1, 2010, the company made a voluntary change in its accounting for frequent flyer benefits to begin accruing for partially earned frequent flyer awards. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about this accounting change. at december 31, 2010, the company had approximately 13.9 million full or partial awards outstanding, of which approximately 10.9 million were partially earned awards. the company also sells frequent flyer credits and related services to companies participating in its frequent flyer program. funds received from the sale of flight segment credits are accounted for under the residual method. under this method, as of december 31, 2010, the company has estimated that approximately 83 percent of the amount received per flight segment credit sold relates to free travel, and the remaining 17 percent associated with items such as access to the company frequent flyer program population for marketing/solicitation purposes, use of the company logo on co-branded credit cards, and other trademarks, designs, images, etc. of the company for use in marketing materials. this apportionment of value between free travel and marketing services is estimated based on several factors, including fares, the habits of customers in redeeming awards for free travel, and the contractual rate paid by companies for the flight segment credits. prior to 2010, the amount estimated to be associated with free travel had historically ranged from 75 percent to 82 percent. the estimated amounts associated with free travel are deferred and recognized as passenger revenue when the ultimate free travel awards are flown or the credits expire unused. for the portion of funds received that is deemed not to be associated with future travel, the company has determined that the period earned is the period in which the company has fulfilled its obligation under the contract signed with the particular business partner, which is on a monthly or quarterly basis, upon sale, as the related marketing services are performed or provided. the vast majority of these marketing services consist of the access granted, either monthly or quarterly, to various lists of the company frequent flyer members. the estimated amount that is not associated with free travel is recognized in other revenue in the period earned. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the assumptions used in estimating the liabilities associated with its frequent flyer program would be made based on the conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. 58 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program. in addition, 16 of the leased aircraft in the company fleet have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company has market sensitive instruments in the form of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge its exposure to jet fuel price increases. the company operates a total of 97 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, except for the 16 aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the company leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. hedging the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. excluding the impact of the anticipated airtran acquisition, the company expects to consume approximately 1.5 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2011. based on this usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $15 million per year, excluding any impact of the company derivative instruments. as of december 31, 2010, the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2011 through 2014. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties. in 2010, the company added to its fuel hedging position related to expected future fuel purchases. the total net fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2010, was a net asset of $207 million. this balance consists of the market value of fuel derivative instruments totaling a net asset of $142 million, and is net of $125 million in cash collateral that has been provided by the company to one counterparty and $60 million in cash collateral held from another counterparty. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2010 (for all years from 2011 through 2014) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $370 million. fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2010 levels, except underlying futures prices. the company credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2010, the company had four counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset, totaling 59 table of contents $383 million. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2010, the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or is posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. the following table provides the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2010, at which such postings are triggered: counterparty (cp) (in millions) a b c d e other total fair value of fuel derivatives $ 114 $ (238 ) $ (3 ) $ 79 $ 189 $ 1 * $ 142 cash collateral held by cp (60 ) 125 65 aircraft collateral pledged to cp 113 113 if credit rating is investment grade, fair value of fuel derivative level at which: cash is provided to cp 0 to (300) or &gt;(700) 0 to (125) or &gt;(535) &gt;(75 ) &gt;(75 ) &gt;(75 ) cash is received from cp &gt;40 &gt;150 &gt;200 *** &gt;125 *** &gt;250 aircraft is pledged to cp (300) to (700) (125) to (535) n/a n/a n/a if credit rating is non-investment grade, fair value of fuel derivative level at which: cash is provided to cp 0 to (300) or &gt;(700) 0 to (125) or &gt;(535) ** ** ** cash is received from cp ** ** ** ** ** aircraft is pledged to cp (300) to (700) (125) to (535) n/a n/a n/a * sum of counterparties with fair value of fuel derivatives &lt;$5m and no risk of the company posting collateral. ** cash collateral is provided at 100 percent of fair value of fuel derivative contracts. *** thresholds may vary based on changes in credit ratings within investment grade. at december 31, 2010, the $60 million in cash collateral deposits held by the company has been netted against the noncurrent fuel derivative assets from that counterparty within other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. the $125 million in cash collateral deposits provided by the company to one counterparty has been netted against the noncurrent fuel derivative liabilities from that counterparty within other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. due to the terms of the company current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 33 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2010, given the company fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would have to provide an additional $497 million in cash collateral to its current counterparties. see also note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 60 table of contents during january 2011, the company made the decision to forego its option under the agreement with one counterparty (counterparty b in the above table) to use some of its aircraft as collateral in lieu of cash and has provided additional cash to that counterparty to meet its collateral obligation based on the fair value of its outstanding fuel derivative instruments. this decision, which can be changed at any time under the existing agreement with that counterparty, was made because the company has an adequate amount of cash on hand available to cover its total collateral requirement and has determined it would be less costly to provide the cash instead of aircraft, due to the nominal additional charges it must pay if aircraft are utilized as collateral. the additional amount of cash provided as of january 19, 2011, was $108 million. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding interest rate swaps, as well as the company and its counterparty credit ratings. as of december 31, 2010, no cash collateral had been provided to or received from counterparties associated with the company interest rate derivatives. if the company credit rating had been below investment grade as of december 31, 2010, it would have been required to provide $4 million in cash collateral to one counterparty based on its outstanding net liability derivative position with that counterparty. the outstanding interest rate net derivative positions with all other counterparties at december 31, 2010 were assets to the company. due to the significance of the company fuel hedging program and the emphasis that it places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. financial market risk the vast majority of the company assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch and standard &amp; poor s, and a baa3 credit rating with moody as of december 31, 2010. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings were originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. as of december 31, 2010, this included the company $385 million 6.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012, the $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, the $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, the $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured debentures due 2027, the $400 million 10.5% secured notes due 2011, and the $300 million 5.75% senior unsecured notes due 2016. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. 61 table of contents excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate as previously noted, the company had no fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding at december 31, 2010. the following table displays the characteristics of the company secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2010: principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 115 6.840 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 296 6.640 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 522 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $2.0 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 4 years at floating rates averaging 3.3 percent for the twelve months ended december 31, 2010. in total, the company fixed rate debt and floating rate debt represented 12 percent and 18 percent, respectively, of total noncurrent assets at december 31, 2010. in january 2011, the company terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014 and its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017. the effect of these terminations is basically that the interest associated with these debts prospectively revert back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which will be amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. although there is no longer interest rate risk associated with these notes, the company will subsequently be exposed to the fair value risk over their remaining terms. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.3 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $2.3 billion, at december 31, 2010. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2010, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of the company financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on the company earnings and cash flows associated with its floating rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2010, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact to the company net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2010, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds 62 table of contents drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2010, the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. five of the company hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company credit rating falls below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparties including one counterparty in which the company had posted $125m as if december 31 2010. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2010, there was no cash posted with any other counterparties. the company was in a net fuel hedge liability position with one counterparty at december 31, 2010 in which no cash was posted. assuming its credit rating were below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $3 million in cash collateral deposits with that counterparty. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor would have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2010, the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors the company business has been significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices; therefore, the company strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company ability to effectively address fuel prices. fuel prices continue to present one of the company most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel has been at historically high levels over the last few years and has been unpredictable, and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. fuel prices are unpredictable, in part, because of many external factors that are beyond the company control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited refining capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which has resulted in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in exchange rates. the company ability to react to fuel price volatility can also be affected by factors outside of its control. for example, the company profitability is affected in part by southwest and airtran ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases are difficult to implement in difficult economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as the low-fare reputation of both southwest and airtran, the portion of their customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. jet fuel and oil consumed for 2011 and 2010 represented approximately 38 percent and 33 percent of the company operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the largest expense incurred by the company in 2011 and the second largest expense in 2010. as a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the company growth plans and strategic initiatives. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to protect against significant increases in fuel costs by entering into over-the-counter fuel derivative contracts. in addition, the company enters into fuel derivative contracts in an effort to reduce volatility in its operating expenses. as discussed in detail in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, derivatives that are designated as hedges and deemed effective ( i.e., that meet certain requirements under applicable accounting standards) are granted hedge accounting treatment, which can reduce volatility in the company operating expenses. nevertheless, because 23 table of contents energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards. for example, the majority of the fuel derivatives in the company hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil (wti). in recent periods, however, the spread between wti and jet fuel has not followed historic norms, which has led to more of the company fuel hedges being ineffective. therefore, adjustments in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company fuel hedging arrangements and the impact of hedge accounting on the company results of operations are discussed in more detail under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company may be unable to successfully integrate airtran business and realize the anticipated benefits of its acquisition of airtran. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer than anticipated to realize. risk factors associated with the company acquisition and integration of airtran are discussed below under risk factors related to the company acquisition and integration of airtran. the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; an increase in unfavorable economic conditions or continued economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company results of operations. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is an expendable discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions also hamper the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. the company continues to face economic uncertainty, and the weakened state of the u.s. and global economy could continue for an extended period of time. continued unfavorable or even uncertain economic conditions could negatively affect the company results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company low-cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors could affect the company ability to control its costs. the company low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled southwest to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company low-cost structure has become increasingly important as a result of the company decision to control capacity growth in response to high fuel prices and uncertain economic conditions. while the company has in the past been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination of capacity control and increasing costs has contributed to an increase in the company costs per available seat mile. this, along with other factors discussed below, has contributed to a narrowing in the cost gap between the company and some of its competitors. the company has limited control over fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs and aircraft airframe and engine repairs expense. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 38 percent of the company operating expenses during 2011, and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the first risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 29 percent of the 24 table of contents company operating expenses during 2011. the company ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its cbas, and increased labor costs have impacted the company low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, have had pay scale increases as a result of increased seniority and contractual rate increases. furthermore, as indicated above under business-employees, a majority of the southwest employee groups have labor agreements that are either currently in negotiation or become amendable in 2012, which could continue to put pressure on the company labor costs. in addition, the company anticipates that the combination of the various southwest and airtran labor contracts and frontline workforces will increase airtran labor costs over their historical levels. as discussed above under business-regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. additionally, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which has resulted in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company maintenance costs have increased with the aging of its fleet, which has required the company to spend more to maintain a portion of its fleet and to implement a related fleet modernization and replacement plan. as discussed above under company operations cost structure, the company low-cost structure has historically been facilitated by, among other things, southwest use of a single aircraft type, the boeing 737, its point-to-point route structure, and its service to and from many secondary or downtown airports. the company increased presence in bigger markets, as well as the addition of the boeing 717 aircraft, could continue to add pressure to the company operating costs and diminish its low-cost advantage. as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, the company could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest or airtran aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain its current level of low-cost advantage. in response to volatile fuel prices and economic uncertainty, some of the company competitors have taken additional efficiency and cost reduction measures, such as capacity cuts and headcount reductions, which have reduced the company cost advantage. in addition, some competitors have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through fleet simplification, better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. prior to the recent economic downturn, some of the company competitors took advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, to decrease operating costs through renegotiated labor, supply, and financing agreements. most recently, in november 2011, amr corporation, the parent company of american airlines and american eagle, sought bankruptcy protection through filing for chapter 11 reorganization. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant expected cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations, as well as to support its initiatives, including its integration of airtran operations and initiatives. as discussed above under business management information systems, during 2010 and 2011, the company continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. among 25 table of contents other things, the company completed the implementation of a new sap enterprise resource planning application, which replaced several of the company back office legacy systems, such as the general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems. the company has also invested in significant technology changes to support its all-new rapid rewards frequent flyer program, introduction of the boeing 737-800 to its fleet beginning in 2012, enhanced southwest.com website, and wifi implementation. in addition, the company has announced its intent to replace its reservation system. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. for example, the company was required to invest in the redesign of the southwest.com and airtran.com websites in order to comply with the dot full-fare advertising rule that went into effect in january 2012. modifications and refinements to the company systems may be expensive to implement and may divert management attention from other key initiatives. in addition, the company operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company may occasionally experience system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. this in turn could reduce the company operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services. the company computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make its business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. in 2011, the company announced its commitment to purchase a significant number of additional boeing aircraft. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 or boeing 717 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, currently outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. 26 table of contents any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. the company must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties in the ordinary course of its business. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company security systems could adversely affect the company reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. the company results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement its revenue and other initiatives. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing costs led to the company decision to limit organic growth for the indefinite future. in addition, organic growth has become increasingly difficult, because (i) the number of opportunities for domestic expansion has declined; (ii) with the exception of airtran near-international service, the company currently does not have international operations; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the success of revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be negatively affected by (i) the company ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. the company cannot ensure the timing of implementation of certain of its initiatives or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company credit ratings and can also negatively affect the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company liquidity generally. during 2009, the company credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and the volatile fuel price environment. during 2011, the company credit ratings were pressured in connection with its acquisition of airtran. while the company credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade would subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 27 table of contents the company business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 29 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2011. in addition, as of december 31, 2011, approximately 82 percent of the company employees (including airtran employees) were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees representatives. however, as indicated above under business-employees, a majority of the southwest employee groups have labor agreements that are either currently in negotiations or become amendable in 2012, which could contribute to the company labor cost pressures. increasing labor costs, combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company competitive position. in addition, disputes regarding the integration of airtran employees could negatively affect the company historically positive employee culture. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and have also resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the company competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and affordable manner. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company initiatives and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and international governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport facilities; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; 28 table of contents restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company ability to promote the company business or fares, such as the dot full-fare advertising rule discussed above under business - regulation ; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company results of operations. in addition, when the airline industry shrinks, airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company costs. the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company business strategies. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, capacity, scheduling, customer service, frequent flyer programs, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and codesharing and similar activities. 29 table of contents risk factors related to the company acquisition and integration of airtran the company may be unable to effectively integrate airtran business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer to realize than currently anticipated. the company must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of airtran. potential difficulties the company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the airtran business with that of the company in a manner that permits the company to achieve anticipated net synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition; the inability to successfully maintain passenger unit revenues upon converting airtran into the southwest business model; the challenges associated with operating an aircraft type new to the company, the boeing 717; the challenges associated with an expanded or new presence in more congested airports and markets; the challenges associated with new international operations, including compliance with international laws; the challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, facilities, and other assets of the company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; the challenges associated with integrating the company workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the company currently anticipates, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays, including costs to integrate airtran business that may exceed the company estimates. any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the company ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or the company ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, or could reduce the company earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. in addition, integration requirements have caused, and may continue to cause, the company to delay other strategic initiatives. the company future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations. upon completion of the company acquisition of airtran, the size of the company business increased significantly beyond the then current size of either the company or airtran businesses. the company future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, and other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. 30 table of contents the need to integrate airtran workforce presents the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, or labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations and costs. the successful integration of airtran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depend significantly on integrating airtran employees into the company and on maintaining productive employee relations. failure to do so presents the potential for (i) delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration or (ii) labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations and costs. southwest and airtran are both highly unionized. the process for integrating labor groups in an airline merger is governed by a combination of the railway labor act, the mccaskill-bond act, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company collective bargaining agreements ( cbas ) and union policies. under the mccaskill-bond act, seniority integration must be accomplished in a fair and equitable manner consistent with the process set forth in sections 3 and 13 of the allegheny-mohawk labor protective provisions. this process consists first of direct negotiations between the incumbent unions with the assistance of the companies. if integration cannot be achieved through agreement, the seniority integration is submitted to binding arbitration by a neutral arbitrator. for employee groups having the same representative at both carriers, the mccaskill-bond act provides that seniority integration must be accomplished pursuant to the union internal policies if such policies exist, which may, depending upon the internal policies, require arbitration. employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation or arbitration, which in some cases can delay seniority integration. under the railway labor act, the national mediation board has exclusive authority to resolve representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. the disputes that the national mediation board has authority to resolve include (i) whether the merger has created a single transportation system for representation purposes; (ii) determination of the appropriate craft or class for representational purposes, including a determination of which positions are to be included within a particular craft or class; and (iii) certification of the system-wide representative organization, if any, for each craft or class at the company following the merger. pending operational integration of airtran with the company, it will be necessary to maintain a fence between southwest and airtran employee groups subject to cbas, during which time the company and airtran will keep the employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing cbas, unless other terms have been negotiated. in the meantime, the company has been negotiating transition agreements, which modify existing cbas to address circumstances unique to the transition process. there is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs, or other actions designed to disrupt the company or airtran normal operations in an attempt to pressure the companies in such negotiations. although the railway labor act generally makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released by the national mediation board to pursue self-help, and the company and airtran might be able to seek injunctive relief or other remedies against premature self-help, such actions could cause significant harm even if the company or airtran were ultimately to be successful. the company is expected to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition and the integration of airtran business. the company is expected to continue to incur substantial integration and transition expenses in connection with the acquisition of airtran, including the necessary costs associated with integrating the operations of southwest and airtran. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, and flight operations. while the company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the financial benefits the company expects to achieve from the acquisition, including the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and 31 table of contents cost savings. these integration expenses likely will continue to result in the company taking significant charges against earnings in future periods, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. the company operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-u.s. jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject. the company expansion, through airtran, of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions has expanded the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company ability to react to changes in its business and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. law. further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. law governed these operations. the company acquired airtran indebtedness upon consummation of the acquisition, which additional indebtedness may limit the company financial and operating flexibility. upon consummation of the acquisition, the company acquired airtran outstanding indebtedness and became subject to the operating restrictions under the debt instruments governing such indebtedness. airtran has significant indebtedness and other commitments, significant debt and lease obligations related to existing purchased and leased aircraft, and debt and lease obligations for existing and planned operating facilities. the increased indebtedness of the company following the acquisition may: require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments and operating lease payments, thereby reducing the availability of the company cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; and limit the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the airline industry and, consequently, negatively affect the company competitive position; and the company will need to launch certain branding or rebranding initiatives in connection with the acquisition that may take a significant amount of time and involve substantial costs and that may not be favorably received by customers. the company may incur substantial costs in rebranding airtran products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the southwest brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by airtran in any of airtran markets. the failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the company ability to attract and retain customers, which could cause the company not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits contemplated to result from the acquisition. the company ability to use airtran net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of the acquisition, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. as of the acquisition date, airtran had federal net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $542 million available to offset future taxable income, expiring between 2017 and 2029. airtran experienced an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), as a result of its acquisition by the company. section 382 of the code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income generated that may be offset with 32 table of contents pre-ownership change nols of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. the limitation imposed by section 382 of the code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. the combined company use of nols arising after the date of an ownership change would not be limited unless the combined company were to experience a subsequent ownership change. the combined company ability to use the nols will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. the nols may expire before the combined company can generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the nols. airtran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against airtran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company operating results. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. ( delta ) and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleged, among other things, that airtran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of section 2 of the sherman act, and conspired with delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. after the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; and las vegas, nevada. all of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in atlanta. a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action on february 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. in addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to airtran and to delta, the consolidated amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed plaintiffs claims that airtran and delta had violated section 2 of the sherman act; the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines capacity and pricing decisions. on june 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which airtran and delta have opposed. the court has not yet ruled on the class certification motion. the scheduled period for fact and expert discovery has ended, but plaintiffs have sought to reopen discovery because delta discovered that it had not produced certain documents. plaintiffs have also sought discovery sanctions against delta but not against airtran. the court has not yet ruled on the sanctions motion or plaintiffs request to reopen discovery. the schedule for summary judgment motions has been suspended until the discovery issues are resolved. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the consolidated amended complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company financial results. in accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the company recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet to the extent the airtran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of airtran tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. goodwill is not amortized, but is 33 table of contents tested for impairment at least annually. impairment charges could be recorded in the company results of operations as a result of, among other items, extreme fuel price volatility, a significant decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. operating cash generated is used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. 58 table of contents net cash used in investing activities in 2011 totaled $1.1 billion, versus $1.3 billion used in 2010. investing activities in both years included payments for new 737-700 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 18 new boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2011, versus the purchase of 11 boeing 737-700s in 2010. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2011 and 2010 also reflect $48 million and $772 million, respectively, related to changes in the balance of the company short-term investments. net cash used in financing activities was $766 million in 2011. during 2011, the company repaid $557 million in debt and capital lease obligations that came due, repurchased approximately $225 million of its outstanding common stock through a share repurchase program, and used $81 million in cash to repay convertible note holders following the acquisition of airtran. net cash used in financing activities was $149 million in 2010. during 2010, the company repaid $155 million in debt and capital lease obligations that came due, and also repaid $44 million from a credit line borrowing associated with auction rate security instruments that were redeemed back to its counterparty. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments the company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. in addition to aircraft acquired as a result of the airtran acquisition, the company received 20 boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2011, 18 of which were new aircraft purchased from boeing and two of which were leased from a third party. the company also retired ten older leased and owned 737-300 aircraft from service during 2011. during december 2011, the company and boeing announced a significant revision to the company future firm aircraft order book. among other items, the revision included the incorporation of airtran future orders into the company agreement, the addition of 58 new 737ng firm orders, and the company placement of a firm order for 150 of boeing new 737 max aircraft which is expected to enter service in 2017. in addition to these orders from boeing, during july 2011, the company executed an agreement to lease five new 737-800 aircraft from a third party. these aircraft are expected to be placed into service in mid-2012 and are expected to replace older aircraft, which are currently scheduled to be retired. under the company agreement with boeing, it has the option to substitute 737-600s for the 737-700s ordered with at least 24 months notice prior to the contractual delivery date and can substitute 737-800s for the 737-700s with at least twelve months notice. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for a complete table of the company firm orders, options, and purchase rights with boeing. for aircraft commitments with boeing, the company is required to make cash deposits toward the purchase of aircraft in advance. these deposits are classified as deposits on flight equipment purchase contracts in the consolidated balance sheet until the aircraft is delivered, at which time deposits previously made are deducted from the final purchase price of the aircraft and are reclassified as flight equipment. the leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has not made any guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as of december 31, 2011, the company, including airtran, operated 199 leased aircraft, of which 192 are under operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $230 million at december 31, 2011. 59 table of contents the company is a well-known seasoned issuer and has a universal shelf registration statement that allows it to register an indeterminate amount of debt or equity securities for future sales. the company intends to use the proceeds from any future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes. the company has not issued any securities under this shelf registration statement to date. the following table aggregates the company (including airtran s) material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2011: obligations by period (in millions) contractual obligations 2012 2013 - 2014 2015 - 2016 beyond 2016 total long-term debt (1) $ 556 $ 719 $ 816 $ 1,481 $ 3,572 interest commitments - fixed (2) 129 226 167 144 666 interest commitments - floating (3) 19 35 41 60 155 operating lease commitments (4) 640 1,359 1,068 2,516 5,583 capital lease commitments 6 12 12 26 56 aircraft purchase commitments (5) 952 2,339 2,343 6,988 12,622 other commitments 198 273 72 543 total contractual obligations $ 2,500 $ 4,963 $ 4,519 $ 11,215 $ 23,197 (1) includes principal only and includes $68 million associated with the company convertible senior notes due 2016. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) related to fixed-rate debt only. (3) interest obligations associated with floating-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) is estimated utilizing forward interest rate curves as of december 31, 2011 and can be subject to significant fluctuation. (4) includes lfmp commitment amounts. (5) firm orders from boeing. the company has flexibility as to the timing for certain of the firm orders in 2013 through 2017, but has classified the amounts in the earliest year they could be considered a commitment. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the company expects to incur approximately $500 million in integration and closing costs associated with the acquisition of airtran, a portion of which were incurred in 2010 and 2011, and which have been, and are expected to continue to be, funded with cash. the company believes that its current liquidity position, including unrestricted cash and short-term investments of $3.1 billion as of december 31, 2011, anticipated future internally generated funds from operations, and its fully available, unsecured revolving credit facility of $800 million, will enable it to meet these future integration expenditures. additionally, as discussed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements and as set forth above in the contractual obligations table, the company has long-term debt maturities of $385 million in march 2012, which are currently expected to be funded with cash and short-term investments on hand or expected to be generated from operations during 2012. the company will continue to consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize liquidity and supplement cash requirements as needed. the company believes it has access to financing arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability, which should enable it to meet its ongoing capital, operating, and other liquidity requirements. as of december 31, 2011, the book value of the company unencumbered aircraft totaled approximately $6.2 billion. in january 2008, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company common stock. through february 15, 2008, the company had repurchased 4.4 million shares for a total of approximately $54 million, at which time repurchases under the program were suspended. on august 5, 2011, the company board of directors authorized the company to resume a share repurchase program and approved the company repurchase, on a discretionary basis, up to $500 million of the company common stock following such authorization. during 2011, the company purchased approximately 27.5 million shares of its common stock for approximately $225 million of the $500 million in total currently authorized by the board. 60 table of contents repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions, and may be discontinued at any time. during 2008, the city of dallas approved the love field modernization program (lfmp), a project to reconstruct dallas love field (airport) with modern, convenient air travel facilities. pursuant to a program development agreement (pda) with the city of dallas and the love field airport modernization corporation (or lfamc, a texas non-profit local government corporation established by the city to act on the city behalf to facilitate the development of the lfmp), the company is managing this project. major construction commenced during 2010, with completion of the project scheduled for the second half of 2014. although subject to change, the project is expected to include the renovation of the airport airline terminals and complete replacement of gate facilities with a new 20-gate facility, including infrastructure, systems and equipment, aircraft parking apron, fueling system, roadways and terminal curbside, baggage handling systems, passenger loading bridges and support systems, and other supporting infrastructure. during fourth quarter 2010, the lfamc issued $310 million in tax-exempt facility revenue bonds (lfmp bonds), the proceeds of which have been or will be used: (1) to finance a significant portion of the ongoing costs of the lfmp; and (2) to reimburse the company for approximately $80 million in early lfmp expenditures made (such expenditures and reimbursement were authorized pursuant to a june 25, 2008 inducement resolution approved by the dallas city council and subsequent resolutions by the lfamc). repayment of the lfmp bonds will be through the facilities payments described below. reimbursement of the company for its payment of facilities payments are expected to be made through recurring ground rents, fees, and other revenues collected at the airport. the company has guaranteed principal, premium, and interest on the issued bonds. depending on funding needs and the timing of these funds from other sources, an additional tranche of bonds is expected to be issued during 2012. it is currently expected that the total amount spent on the lfmp project will be approximately $519 million. prior to the issuance of the lfmp bonds by the lfamc, the company entered into two separate funding agreements: (1) a facilities agreement pursuant to which the company is obligated to make debt service payments on the principal and interest amounts associated with the lfmp bonds (facilities payments), less other sources of funds the city of dallas may apply to the repayment of the lfmp bonds (including but not limited to passenger facility charges collected from passengers originating from the airport); and (2) a revenue credit agreement pursuant to which the city of dallas will reimburse the company for the facilities payments made by the company. a majority of the monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement are expected to originate from a reimbursement account created in the use and lease agreement between the city of dallas and the company. the use and lease agreement is a 20-year agreement providing for, among other things, the company lease of space at the airport from the city of dallas. the remainder of such monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement is expected to originate from (1) use and lease agreements with other airlines, (2) various concession agreements, and (3) other airport miscellaneous revenues. the company liquidity could be impacted by the lfmp to the extent there is not an additional future successful bond issuance or there is a timing difference between the company payment of the facilities payments pursuant to the facilities agreement and the transfer of monies back to the company pursuant to the revenue credit agreement; however, the company does not currently anticipate the occurrence of either of these items. the lfmp is not expected to have a significant impact on the company capital resources or financial position. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information and accounting requirements related to the lfmp. 61 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns and fare sale activity. for air travel on southwest, the amount of tickets that will expire unused are estimated and recognized in passenger revenue once the scheduled flight date has passed. estimating the amount of tickets that will expire unused, be refunded, or exchanged involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of southwest tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of unused tickets. according to southwest contract of carriage, tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). this policy also applies to unused customer funds that may be left over from exchanging a less expensive ticket for a previously purchased ticket that was more expensive. a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. estimates of tickets that will expire unused are based on historical experience over many years. southwest and other airlines have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from unused tickets at the date of scheduled travel. holding other factors constant, a 10 percent change in the company (including airtran s) estimate of the amount of tickets that will expire unused would have resulted in a $37 million, or 0.25 percent, change in passenger revenues recognized for 2011. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, changes to the company ticketing policies, the company refund, exchange, and unused funds policies, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, promotional fare activity, and the impact of the economic environment on customer behavior. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. during 2009, as a result of the company efforts to stimulate demand through fare sales, passenger revenues consisted of a higher percentage of discount tickets flown and a lower percentage of fully refundable tickets flown. in addition, during 2011, the company revised its unused funds policy to restrict the ability of a customer to transfer funds to another customer, which has resulted in an increase in expiration of unused funds. consequently, the company estimate of the amount of refunded, exchanged, or forfeited tickets recorded during 2009 and during 2011 was approximately 30 to 35 percent higher than what it believes its historical averages would indicate for those years. the company believes these estimates are supported by actual data and are reasonable given the underlying fact patterns. 62 table of contents the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets flight equipment and related assets make up the majority of the company long-lived assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 496 boeing 737 aircraft and 10 boeing 717 aircraft in the company (including airtran s) fleet at december 31, 2011, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 114 boeing 737 aircraft and 78 boeing 717 aircraft in the company (including airtran s) fleet at december 31, 2011, are operated under operating leases. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and their future expected cash flows. the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values for new assets generally purchased from the manufacturer: estimated useful life estimated residual value airframes and engines 23 to 30 years 5%-15% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market information, and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing) as well as the aircraft age. the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to aircraft maintenance programs, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense. for example, during fourth quarter 2010, the company changed the estimated residual values of its entire remaining fleet of owned 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft. based on current and expected future market conditions related to these aircraft, the company reduced the residual values of these aircraft from approximately 15 percent of original cost to approximately 10 percent of original cost. this determination was made due to the lack of buyers for these older aircraft, as many buyers of used aircraft prefer newer, more fuel efficient models, and the increase in the number of airlines retiring these older aircraft, which has increased the supply of older aircraft on the market. as this reduction in residual value is considered a change in estimate, it was accounted for on a prospective basis, and thus the company has effectively accelerated the recording of depreciation expense over the remainder of the useful lives for each aircraft. the impact of this change was not material. the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. the company has continued to operate virtually all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce operating profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairment related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. 63 table of contents financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities, and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company fuel hedging program and financial derivative instruments. all derivatives are required to be reflected at fair value and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2011, the company was a party to over 800 separate financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for the years 2012 through 2015. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity prices, as has been evident in recent years. for example, during 2010, market spot prices for crude oil peaked at a high of approximately $91 per barrel and hit a low price of approximately $68 per barrel. during 2011, market spot prices ranged from a low of $76 per barrel to a high of $114 per barrel. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, value of the u.s. dollar, geopolitical events, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in some historical periods, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company has in fact lost hedge accounting for a certain type of commodity, such as all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments. there have also been instances in which the company has lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for certain types of commodities used in hedging. at such times, the company has marked all such derivatives to fair value in each quarterly period, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other (gains) losses, net in the consolidated statement of income. the company did not lose hedge accounting for an entire commodity during 2011, 2010, or 2009. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that the commodities used in most cases still qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. increased volatility in these commodity markets for an extended period of time, especially if such volatility were to worsen, could cause the company to lose hedge accounting altogether for the commodities used in its fuel hedging program, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their fair values from period to period and thus determine their accounting treatment. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness 64 table of contents of the fuel hedge can result. this could result in the immediate recording of non-cash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other (gains) and losses, net in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the past volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has historically resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in fair value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during historical periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for mitigation of fuel price volatility. the discontinuation of hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, can also be a result of these factors. depending on the level at which the company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the company hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued variability recorded in the consolidated statement of income, and furthermore, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large volumes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting expected future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges. the current methodology used by the company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this methodology for estimating expected future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2011, 2010, and 2009, and has not changed for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. fair value measurements the company utilizes unobservable (level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2011, these included auction rate security investments, valued at $67 million, a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were a net asset of $417 million, and $5 million in other investments. all of the company auction rate security instruments are reflected at estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. in prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30-35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would have qualified as level 1. however, due to events in credit markets beginning during first quarter 2008, the auctions for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, the company has determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a 65 table of contents discounted cash flow analysis or other type of valuation model, which qualify the instruments as level 3. the company analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, and estimates of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction or return to par value. in association with this estimate of fair value, the company has recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of $14 million, with an offsetting entry to aoci. given the quality and backing of the company auction rate securities held, the fact that the company has not yet recorded a loss on the sale of any of these instruments, and the fact that it has been able to periodically sell instruments back to the issuer, it believes it can continue to account for the estimated reduction in fair value of its remaining securities as temporary. these conclusions will also continue to be evaluated and challenged in subsequent periods. the company currently believes that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets for the majority of securities are almost entirely backed by the u.s. government. in addition, these auction rate securities represented less than two percent of the company total cash, cash equivalents, and investment balance at december 31, 2011, which the company believes allows it sufficient time for the auction rate securities to return to full value. at the time of the first failed auctions during first quarter 2008, the company held a total of $463 million in auction rate securities. since that time, the company has been able to redeem $382 million of these instruments at par value. the company determines the fair value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing an option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. in situations where the company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. the company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily volatility), the company has categorized these option contracts as level 3. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, any changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within aoci until the period in which the expected future cash flow impacts earnings. any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that are ineffective, as defined, or that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are reflected in earnings within other (gains) losses, net, in the period of the change. because the company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the company derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the company financial statements. in addition, the company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the company) to provide cash collateral when the fair value of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the company outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the company estimate of fair values. frequent flyer accounting southwest and airtran utilize estimates in the recognition of liabilities associated with their respective frequent flyer programs. these estimates primarily include the liability associated with frequent flyer member account balances that are expected to be redeemed for travel or other products at a future date, and frequent flyer awards that have been issued, are outstanding, and are expected to be redeemed at a future date. frequent flyer account balances include points/credits earned through flights taken, points sold to customers, or points/credits earned through business partners participating in the company frequent flyer program. 66 table of contents in march 2011, southwest launched its all-new rapid rewards frequent flyer program. under the new program, members earn points for every dollar spent instead of credits for flight segments flown. the amount of points earned is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products ( e.g. , business select) earning more points than lower fare products ( e.g., wanna get away). each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. however , unlike southwest previous program, under the new program, (i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the rapid rewards member has points-earning activity during a 24-month time period. in addition, southwest co-branded chase visa credit card holders are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on southwest airlines, such as international flights, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. in addition to earning points for revenue flights, rapid rewards members also have the ability to purchase points. as part of southwest transition to the new program, southwest did not convert members account balances under the previous program, but is allowing members to continue to redeem those balances for award travel under the prior program rules for a period of time. airtran operates its a+ rewards frequent flyer program, which allows customers the opportunity to earn free roundtrip travel awards or business class upgrades on airtran flights. a+ rewards credits are earned through flights, purchases made with an airtran airways a+ visa card, qualifying car rentals from hertz, purchases from other a+ rewards partners, and in conjunction with certain marketing promotions. under certain circumstances, customers may also redeem frequent flyer awards for free travel on other airlines. both southwest and airtran utilize the incremental cost method of accounting for points and/or credits earned through flights taken in their respective frequent flyer programs. a liability is recorded for the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel as points and/or credits are being earned. the liability recorded represents the total number of points and/or credits expected to be redeemed by members, regardless of whether the members may have enough to qualify for a full travel award. the incremental cost liability is primarily composed of direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. at december 31, 2011, southwest and airtran consolidated incremental cost liability, including both the liability remaining from southwest previous program and the liability associated with its new frequent flyer program, was approximately $66 million. southwest and airtran also sell frequent flyer points and/or credits and related services to business partners participating in the respective frequent flyer programs. the majority of the points and/or credits sold to business partners are through the southwest co-branded chase visa credit card or the airtran a+ visa card. funds received from the sale of points and/or credits associated with these agreements are accounted for under the residual method. although asu no. 2009-13 revenue agreements with multiple deliverables disallows the use of the residual method with respect to new and modified revenue arrangements after its january 1, 2011, effective date, southwest and airtran are required to continue to utilize the residual method until such time as there is a material modification to such pre-existing agreements. as a result, the adoption of asu no. 2009-13 currently has no impact on southwest or airtran. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on asu no. 2009-13. under the residual method, as of december 31, 2011, southwest estimates that approximately 92 percent of the amount received from frequent flyer points sold associated with southwest co-branded credit card relates to free travel, and the remaining 8 percent is associated with items such as access to its frequent flyer program population for marketing/solicitation purposes, use of the southwest logo on the co-branded credit cards, and other trademarks, designs, images, etc., of southwest for use in marketing materials. this apportionment of value between free travel and marketing services is estimated based on several factors, including fares, the habits of customers in redeeming free travel awards, and the contractual rate received for the points sold. prior to 2011, the amount estimated to be associated with free travel had historically ranged from 75 percent to 82 percent. the estimated amounts associated with free travel are deferred and recognized as passenger revenue when the ultimate free travel awards are flown or the amounts expire unused. for the portion of funds received that is deemed not to be associated with future travel, southwest 67 table of contents has determined that the period revenue is recognized is the period in which it has fulfilled its obligation under the contract signed with the particular business partner, which is on a monthly or quarterly basis, upon sale, as the related marketing services are performed or provided. the vast majority of these marketing services consist of the access granted, either monthly or quarterly, to various lists of southwest frequent flyer members. the estimated amount that is not associated with free travel is recognized in other revenue in the period earned. for airtran, 100 percent of amounts received for credits sold is estimated to relate to free travel and is deferred until the travel award is flown. under its new program, southwest continues to estimate the portion of frequent flyer points that will not be redeemed. these estimates are based on experience in its previous program and expectations of customer behavior given the rules of the new program. however, since the program is new, these estimates may result in significant adjustments based on actual experience. goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of the company acquisition of airtran on may 2, 2011, the company has reflected goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet in the amount of $970 million at december 31, 2011, representing the excess of the fair value of airtran assets and liabilities over its book value on the acquisition date. in addition, the company carries other intangible assets totaling approximately $125 million at december 31, 2011, primarily consisting of leasehold rights to airport gates, take-off and landing slots at certain domestic slot-controlled airports, and certain intangible assets recognized as part of the valuation of airtran assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. all of the company intangible assets are finite-lived and are being amortized over their estimated economic useful lives. goodwill is not amortized, but will be tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. the company has selected october 1 as its annual testing date and performed its initial annual goodwill impairment test as of october 1, 2011. the company applies a fair value based methodology in testing the carrying value of goodwill for its one reporting unit. key assumptions and/or estimates made in the company 2011 goodwill impairment test included the following: 1) a long-term projection of revenues, expenses, and cash flows; 2) an estimated weighted average cost of capital of 9.5 percent; and 3) a tax rate of 38.5 percent. the company believes these assumptions are consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were present at the time the estimates were made. however, actual results and amounts may be significantly different from the company estimates. future impairment of goodwill may result from changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the company control. factors which could result in an impairment, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: 1) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; 2) higher prices for jet fuel; 3) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; 4) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and 5) significant disruptions to the company operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. as a result of the tests performed during fourth quarter 2011, no impairment was determined to exist for goodwill or any of the company finite-lived intangible assets. in the goodwill impairment analysis performed, the excess of fair value versus carrying value was estimated to be between 15 - 20 percent. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2011, southwest and 68 table of contents airtran operated a total of 199 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. inclusive of the operations of airtran, the company expects to consume approximately 1.9 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2012. based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $19 million for 2012, excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2011, the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2012 through 2015. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2011, was a net liability of $44 million. in addition, a total of $226 million in cash collateral has been provided by the company to three counterparties associated with these instruments. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2011 (for all years from 2012 through 2015) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $400 million. fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2011 levels, except underlying futures prices. the company credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2011, the company had five counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset, totaling $200 million. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2011, the company had agreements with all of its counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits 69 table of contents and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or cash and/or aircraft could be posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2011, at which such postings are triggered. at december 31, 2011, of the entire $226 million in cash collateral deposits posted with counterparties under the company bilateral collateral provisions, $41 million in cash collateral deposits has been netted against noncurrent fuel derivative instruments within other noncurrent liabilities and $185 million in cash collateral deposits has been netted against current fuel derivative instruments within accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. no aircraft were pledged as collateral at december 31, 2011. due to the terms of the company current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company fuel hedging activities were to decrease by one-third from market prices as of december 31, 2011, given the company fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $700 million in cash and/or aircraft collateral to its current counterparties. however, the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. the majority of fuel derivatives in the company hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil (wti). during early 2011, the spread between wti and jet fuel widened beyond historic norms, which led to more ineffectiveness when measuring the company hedges. during that time, jet fuel prices more closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil (brent). during fourth quarter 2011, the spread between wti and jet fuel narrowed from its 2011 high, but still remains higher than historic norms; however, there is no assurance that this spread will not expand again in the future. although the company has some fuel derivatives based on the price of brent, to the extent the spread between jet fuel and wti stays at current levels or widens from current levels, the company hedges could continue to be ineffective and not provide adequate protection against jet fuel price volatility. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company and its counterparty credit ratings. as of december 31, 2011, $64 million had been provided to one counterparty associated with interest rate derivatives based on the company outstanding net liability derivative position with that counterparty. in addition, in connection with interest rate swaps entered into by airtran, a total of $32 million in cash collateral had been provided to two counterparties at december 31, 2011, as a result of net liability derivative positions with those counterparties. the outstanding interest rate net derivative positions with all other counterparties at december 31, 2011, were assets to the company. due to the significance of the company fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. 70 table of contents financial market risk the vast majority of the company tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch, a bbb- rating with standard &amp; poor s, and a baa3 credit rating with moody as of december 31, 2011, which are considered investment grade. the company 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because these borrowings were originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company and airtran have converted certain of their long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk for the 1999 and 2004 french credit agreements is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company s, including airtran s, short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2011, excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014 and its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017. both of these notes had previously been converted to floating rates, but in january 2011, the company terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which will be amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. although there is no longer interest rate risk associated with these notes, the company is now exposed to fair value risk over their remaining terms. the company believes the fixed interest rates associated with its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014 and its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017 are comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the following table displays the characteristics of the company (including airtran s) secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2011: principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 269 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 106 6.84 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 487 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company s, including airtran s, floating rate debt totaled $1.1 billion, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 4.99 years at floating rates averaging 4.46 percent for the year ended december 31, 2011. in total, the company s, including airtran s, fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 19.52 percent and 7.82 percent, respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2011. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $829 million, and short-term investments, which totaled $2.3 billion, at december 31, 2011. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, us government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. 71 table of contents a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2011, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company s, including airtran s, fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company s, including airtran s, floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2011, were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact to the company net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2011, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company s, including airtran s, publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2011, the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. seven of the company hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2011, the company had posted $226 million in cash with its fuel hedge counterparties, because the company was in a net fuel hedge liability position with those counterparties. the company had the option of substituting aircraft in lieu of $27 million in cash as of december 31, 2011, but opted to provide cash instead. if the company credit rating had been below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $53 million in additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company air traffic liability. 72 table of contents as of december 31, 2011, the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; an increase in unfavorable economic conditions or continued economic uncertainty could negatively affect the company results of operations and could require the company to adjust its business strategies. the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and shorthaul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions also hamper the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. the company continues to face economic uncertainty, and the weakened state of the u.s. and global economy could continue for an extended period of time. continued unfavorable or even uncertain economic conditions could negatively affect the company results of operations and could cause the company to adjust its business strategies. the company business has been significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices; therefore, the company strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the company ability to effectively address fuel prices. fuel prices continue to present one of the company most significant challenges, as (i) the cost of fuel has been at historically high levels over the last several years and has been both volatile and unpredictable, and (ii) airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate; therefore, even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. fuel prices are volatile and unpredictable, in part, because of many external factors that are beyond the company control. for example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited refining capacity; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which has resulted in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in governmental policies on fuel production, 24 table of contents transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in exchange rates. the company ability to react to fuel price volatility can also be affected by factors outside of its control. for example, the company profitability is affected in part by southwest and airtran ability to increase fares in reaction to fuel price increases; however, fare increases are difficult to implement in difficult economic environments when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. the ability to increase fares can also be limited by factors such as the historical low-fare reputation of both southwest and airtran, the portion of their customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. jet fuel and oil consumed for 2012 and 2011 represented approximately 37 percent and 38 percent of the company operating expenses, respectively, and constituted the largest expense incurred by the company in both years. as a result, the price of fuel has impacted, and could continue to impact, the timing and nature of the company growth plans and strategic initiatives. the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to protect against significant increases in fuel costs by entering into over-the-counter financial fuel derivative contracts. in addition, the company enters into fuel derivative contracts in an effort to reduce volatility in its operating expenses. because jet fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel. however, the company has found that financial derivative instruments in other commodities, such as west texas intermediate (wti) crude oil, brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. as discussed in detail in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, derivatives that are designated as hedges and deemed effective ( i.e., that meet certain requirements under applicable accounting standards) are granted hedge accounting treatment, which can reduce volatility in the company operating expenses. nevertheless, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices. in addition, the company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards. adjustments in the company overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the company results of operations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. the company fuel hedging arrangements and the impact of hedge accounting on the company results of operations are discussed in more detail under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company has used financial derivative instruments for both shortterm and longterm time frames, and primarily uses a mixture of purchased call options, collar structures (which include both a purchased call option and a sold put option), call spreads (which include a purchased call option and a sold call option) and fixed price swap agreements in its portfolio. although the use of collar structures and swap agreements can reduce the overall cost of hedging, these instruments carry more risk than purchased call options in that the company could end up in a liability position when the collar structure or swap agreement settles. with the use of purchased call options and call spreads, the company cannot be in a liability position at settlement, but may be exposed to price changes beyond a certain market price. the company low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the company ability to control its costs. the company low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled southwest to historically offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share. the company low-cost structure has become increasingly important as a result of the company decision to control capacity growth in response to high fuel prices and uncertain economic conditions. while the company has in the past been able to cover increasing costs through growth, the combination of capacity control and increasing costs has contributed to an increase in the company costs per available seat mile. 25 table of contents the company has limited control over fuel and labor costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs. jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 37 percent of the company operating expenses during 2012, and the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second risk factor above. salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 29 percent of the company operating expenses during 2012. the company ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its cbas, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the company low-cost competitive position. as discussed further under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company unionized workforce, which makes up the majority of its employees, have had pay scale increases as a result of increased seniority and contractual rate increases. furthermore, as indicated above under business-employees, a vast majority of southwest unionized employees, including those represented by southwest five largest unions, have labor agreements that are either currently in negotiation or become amendable in 2013, which could continue to put pressure on the company labor costs. in addition, the company anticipates that the combination of the various southwest and airtran labor contracts and frontline workforces will increase airtran labor costs over their historical levels. as discussed above under business-regulation, the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the company regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by the regulatory agencies. additionally, when other airlines reduce their capacity, airport costs are then allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which has resulted in increased landing fees and other costs for the company. the company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. as discussed above under business-insurance, the company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and is also provided supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage by the federal government at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates. if the supplemental coverage is not extended, the company could incur substantially higher insurance costs. in addition, an accident or other incident involving southwest or airtran aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public perception of the company. the company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage. for example, the company maintenance costs have increased with the aging of its fleet, which has required the company to spend more to maintain a portion of its fleet and to implement a related fleet modernization and replacement plan. further, some of the company competitors have achieved substantially lower employee pay scales through bankruptcy than the company. additionally, in response to volatile fuel prices and economic uncertainty, some of the company competitors have taken additional efficiency and cost reduction measures, such as capacity cuts and headcount reductions, which have reduced the company cost advantage. further, other competitors have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile. in addition, some competitors have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through fleet simplification, better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. prior to the recent economic downturn, some of the company competitors took advantage of reorganization in bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, to decrease operating costs through renegotiated labor, supply, and financing agreements. most recently, in november 2011, amr corporation, the parent company of american airlines and american eagle, sought bankruptcy protection through filing for chapter 11 reorganization. in addition, some airlines have consolidated and reported significant expected cost synergies. the company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure or disruption in the company information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. the company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations. in addition, technology is critical to the success of the company strategic initiatives. in recent years the company has been committed to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. 26 table of contents for example, the company has implemented a new trax maintenance inventory management system and, as a result, is currently operating three maintenance inventory management systems. concurrently operating three maintenance inventory management systems involves inherent risks, including certain operational and compliance risks; however, the company believes it has designed and implemented controls to detect and mitigate such risks during this conversion process. the company current plan is to transition its existing southwest and airtran systems over to the new trax system during 2013 and 2014. additionally, the company has completed the implementation of a new sap enterprise resource planning application, which has replaced several of the company back office legacy systems, such as the general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems. the company has also invested in significant technology changes to support other initiatives such as southwest all-new rapid rewards frequent flyer program, introduction of the boeing 737-800 to its fleet, enhanced southwest.com website, wifi implementation, and live television connectivity. in addition, the company needs new reservation system technology to support international itineraries, and has begun the international reservation system construction. the company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources to implement connecting capabilities between the southwest and airtran reservations systems, to introduce the first phase of a new revenue management system, and to implement a new reservation system that will allow the company to add international destinations and improve revenue management and customer service functionality. integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. integration also presents the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the company ability to effectively operate its business. the company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives. in the ordinary course of business, the company systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. in addition, the company systems may require modification to enable the company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. for example, the company was required to invest in the redesign of the southwest.com and airtran.com websites in order to comply with the dot full-fare advertising rule that went into effect in january 2012. modifications and refinements to the company systems may be expensive to implement and may divert management attention from other key initiatives. in addition, the company operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it is unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary. the company may occasionally experience system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which could prevent the company from efficiently processing customer transactions or providing services. this in turn could reduce the company operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services. the company computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the company from processing customer transactions or providing services, which could make the company business and services less attractive and subject the company to liability. any of these events could damage the company reputation and be expensive to remedy. the company business is labor intensive; therefore, the company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its employees or its employees representatives or if the company were unable to employ sufficient numbers of qualified employees to maintain its operations. the airline business is labor intensive. salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 29 percent of the company operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2012. in addition, as of december 31, 27 table of contents 2012, approximately 83 percent of the company employees (including airtran employees) were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. employment-related issues that may impact the company results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, and health care costs. the company has historically maintained positive relationships with its employees and its employees representatives. however, as indicated above under business-employees, a vast majority of southwest unionized employees, including those represented by southwest five largest unions, have labor agreements that are either currently in negotiations or become amendable in 2013, which could further impact the company labor costs. increasing labor costs, whether or not combined with curtailed growth, could negatively impact the company competitive position. the company success also depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. competition for skilled personnel may intensify if overall industry capacity increases and/or if high levels of current personnel reach retirement age. the company may be required to increase existing levels of compensation to retain or supplement its skilled workforce. the inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key skilled personnel may adversely affect the company operations. the company may be unable to successfully complete the integration of airtran business and realize the anticipated benefits of its acquisition of airtran. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer than anticipated to realize. risk factors associated with the company acquisition and integration of airtran are discussed below under risk factors related to the company acquisition and integration of airtran. the company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment. the company is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. in 2011, the company announced its commitment to purchase a significant number of additional boeing aircraft. although the company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than boeing, most of its purchases are directly from boeing. therefore, if the company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from boeing, or boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the company operations would be materially adversely affected. in addition, the company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the boeing 737 or boeing 717 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the company fleet or because of a negative perception by the flying public. the company believes, however, that its years of experience with the boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, currently outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. in order to enable southwest to sustain the benefits associated with operating a single aircraft type, in july 2012 the company entered into an agreement with delta air lines, inc. and boeing capital corp. to lease or sublease all 88 of airtran boeing 717-200 aircraft to delta. deliveries to delta are expected to begin in august 2013 at the rate of approximately three aircraft per month. the company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. any failure of the company to maintain the security of certain customer-related information could result in damage to the company reputation and could be costly to remediate. the company must receive information related to its customers in order to run its business, and the company online operations depend upon the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. this information is subject to the risk of intrusion, 28 table of contents tampering, and theft. although the company maintains systems to prevent this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. the company must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties in the ordinary course of its business. while the company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of the company security systems could adversely affect the company reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the company or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. although the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventive and detective measures put in place by the company. the company results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to timely and effectively implement its revenue and other initiatives. southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline; however, the combination of a difficult economic environment and growing jet fuel costs led to the company decision to limit organic growth for the indefinite future. in addition, organic growth has become increasingly difficult, because (i) the number of opportunities for domestic expansion has declined; (ii) with the exception of airtran near-international service, the company currently does not have international operations; and (iii) the company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. as a result, the company has become increasingly reliant on the success of revenue initiatives to help offset increasing costs and to continue to improve customer service. the timely and effective implementation of these initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by the company of time and money and could be negatively affected by (i) the company ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the company ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its initiatives against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the company dependence on third parties to assist with implementation of its initiatives. the company cannot ensure the timing of implementation of certain of its initiatives or that they will be successful or profitable either over the short or long term. instability of credit, capital, and energy markets can result in pressure on the company credit ratings and can also negatively affect the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and the company liquidity generally. during 2009, the company credit ratings were pressured by weak industry revenue and an extraordinarily volatile fuel price environment. during 2011, the company credit ratings were pressured in connection with its acquisition of airtran. while the company credit rating is investment grade, factors such as future unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or instability of the credit and capital markets could result in future pressure on credit ratings, which could negatively affect (i) the company ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, (ii) the company liquidity generally, and (iii) the availability and cost of insurance. a credit rating downgrade would subject the company to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. the potential effect of credit rating downgrades is discussed in more detail below under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the company operations. terrorist attacks and threatened attacks have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and have also resulted in increased safety and security costs for the company and the airline industry generally. safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the 29 table of contents company competitiveness against surface transportation for shorthaul routes. additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the company and the airline industry. airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies could limit the company growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the company operating costs or otherwise limit the company ability to conduct business. almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. similarly, the federal government singularly controls all u.s. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the faa operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. the air traffic control system, which is operated by the faa, could continue to face airspace and/or airport congestion challenges in the future which could limit the company opportunities for growth. as discussed above under business regulation, airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. these requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. the company initiatives and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: increases in airport rates and charges; limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities; limitations on route authorities; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports; actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; changes to environmental regulations; new or increased taxes; changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; restrictions on competitive practices; changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other customer service standards; changes in laws that may limit or regulate the company ability to promote the company business or fares, such as the dot full-fare advertising rule discussed above under business regulation ; and the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations. because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline operating and financial results. therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the company results of operations. in addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the company costs. 30 table of contents the airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the company business strategies. in addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: adverse weather and natural disasters; outbreaks of disease; changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system; changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability. the airline industry is intensely competitive. as discussed in more detail above under business competition, the airline industry is intensely competitive. the company primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the internet. the company revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and codesharing and similar activities. risk factors related to the company acquisition and integration of airtran the company may be unable to effectively complete the integration of airtran business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer to realize than currently anticipated. the company must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of airtran. potential difficulties the company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the airtran business with that of the company in a manner that permits the company to achieve anticipated net synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition; the inability to successfully maintain passenger unit revenues upon converting airtran into the southwest business model; the challenges currently associated with operating an aircraft type new to the company, the boeing 717; the challenges associated with an expanded or new presence in more congested airports and markets; the challenges associated with new international operations, including compliance with international laws; the challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, facilities, and other assets of the company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; 31 table of contents the challenges associated with integrating the company workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the company currently anticipates, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays, including costs to integrate airtran business that may exceed the company estimates. any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the company ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or the company ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, or could reduce the company earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. in addition, integration requirements have caused, and may continue to cause, the company to delay other strategic initiatives. the company future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations. upon completion of the company acquisition of airtran, the size of the company business increased significantly beyond the then current size of either the company or airtran businesses. the company future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, and other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. the need to integrate airtran workforce presents the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, or labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations and costs. the successful integration of airtran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depend significantly on integrating airtran employees into the company and on maintaining productive employee relations. failure to do so presents the potential for (i) delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration or (ii) labor disputes that could adversely affect the company operations and costs. in addition, disputes regarding the integration of airtran employees could negatively affect the company historically positive employee culture. pending operational integration of airtran with the company, it will be necessary to maintain a fence between southwest and airtran employee groups subject to cbas, during which time the company and airtran will continue to keep the employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing cbas, unless other terms have been negotiated. the company is expected to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition and the integration of airtran business. the company is expected to continue to incur substantial integration and transition expenses in connection with the acquisition of airtran, including the necessary costs associated with integrating the operations of southwest and airtran. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, and flight operations. while the company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the financial benefits the company expects to achieve from the acquisition, including the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses likely will continue to result in the company taking significant charges against earnings in future periods, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. 32 table of contents the company operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-u.s. jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject. the company expansion, through airtran, of its operations into non-u.s. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the company is subject, both domestically and internationally. in addition, operations in non-u.s. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than u.s. laws. laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and these differences can affect the company ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under u.s. law. further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the company ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. as a result, the company ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-u.s. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if u.s. law governed these operations. although the company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the company employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the company policies, could have an adverse effect on the company reputation and/or its results of operations. the company will need to continue certain branding or rebranding initiatives in connection with the acquisition that may take a significant amount of time and involve substantial additional costs and that may not be favorably received by customers. the company may incur substantial additional costs in rebranding airtran products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the southwest brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by airtran in any of airtran markets. the failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the company ability to attract and retain customers, which could cause the company not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits contemplated to result from the acquisition. the company ability to use airtran net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of the acquisition, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. following the filing of airtran may 2, 2011 short period federal tax return in first quarter 2012, airtran had federal net operating loss carryforwards ( nols ) of approximately $560 million available to offset future taxable income, expiring between 2017 and 2031. although the company is limited in the amount of nols that can be used in each year, it was able to utilize a portion of such benefits in its 2011 federal tax return and expects to be able to utilize an additional portion when it files its 2012 federal tax return. airtran experienced an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), as a result of its acquisition by the company. section 382 of the code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income generated that may be offset with pre-ownership change nols of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. the limitation imposed by section 382 of the code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable longterm tax-exempt rate. any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. the combined company use of nols arising after the date of an ownership change would not be limited unless the combined company were to experience a subsequent ownership change. while the company expects to be able to utilize the entire amount of such nols prior to their respective expirations, the company ability to use the nols will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. the nols may expire before the company can generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the nols. 33 table of contents airtran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against airtran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the company operating results. a complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against delta air lines, inc. ( delta ) and airtran in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia in atlanta on may 22, 2009. the complaint alleged, among other things, that airtran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of section 2 of the sherman act, and conspired with delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the united states who directly paid delta and/or airtran such fees on domestic flights beginning december 5, 2008. after the filing of the may 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in atlanta, georgia; orlando, florida; and las vegas, nevada. all of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in atlanta. a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action on february 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that delta and airtran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. in addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to airtran and to delta, the consolidated amended complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys fees. on august 2, 2010, the court dismissed plaintiffs claims that airtran and delta had violated section 2 of the sherman act; the court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines capacity and pricing decisions. on june 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which airtran and delta have opposed. the court has not yet ruled on the class certification motion. the original period for fact and expert discovery was scheduled to end on february 25, 2011, but on february 3, 2012, the court granted plaintiffs motion for supplemental discovery because delta discovered that it had not produced certain electronic documents. the period for supplemental discovery against airtran ended on may 3, 2012, but discovery disputes between plaintiffs and delta have continued. on june 18, 2012, the parties filed a stipulation and order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that airtran and delta conspired to reduce capacity. airtran and delta moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs remaining claims on august 31, 2012. the plaintiffs filed motions to compel delta to produce additional documents and for sanctions based on alleged failures to produce electronic data. on november 19, 2012, the court ordered plaintiffs to appoint an expert to examine delta production of electronic data and suspended the briefing schedule for the summary judgment motion until the expert has completed his work. it is airtran understanding that the expert work is ongoing. while airtran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the consolidated amended complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the company or airtran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the company operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. should airtran and the company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the company financial results. in accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the company recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet to the extent the airtran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of airtran tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. impairment charges could be recorded in the company results of operations as a result of, among other items, extreme fuel price volatility, a significant decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. the company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. any such charges may materially negatively affect the company financial results. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, respectively. operating cash generated is used primarily to finance aircraft-related capital expenditures and to provide working capital. net cash used in investing activities in 2012 totaled $833 million, versus $1.1 billion used in 2011. investing activities in both years included payments for new 737-700 or 737-800 aircraft delivered to the company and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. the company purchased 29 new boeing 737-800 aircraft in 2012, versus the purchase of 18 boeing 737-700s in 2011. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. investing activities for 2012 and 2011 also reflect $483 million of net inflows and $48 million of net outflows, respectively, related to changes in the balance of the company short-term investments. net cash used in financing activities was $947 million in 2012. during 2012, the company repaid $578 million in debt and capital lease obligations that came due, which included the prepayment of approximately $19 million in december related to a high-interest aircraft secured loan that southwest assumed as part of the airtran acquisition and repurchased approximately $400 million of its outstanding common stock through a share repurchase program. net cash used in financing activities was $766 million in 2011. during 2011, the company repaid $540 million in debt and capital lease obligations that came due, repurchased approximately $225 million of its outstanding common stock through a share repurchase program, and used $81 million in cash to repay convertible note holders following the acquisition of airtran. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the issuance and redemption of long-term debt. the company has a large net deferred tax liability on its consolidated balance sheet. the deferral of income taxes has resulted in a significant benefit to the company and its liquidity position. since the company purchases the majority of the aircraft it acquires, it has been able to utilize accelerated depreciation methods (including bonus depreciation) available under the internal revenue code in 2012 and in previous years, which has enabled the company to defer the cash tax payments associated with these depreciable assets to future years. based on the company scheduled future aircraft deliveries from boeing and existing tax laws in effect, the 60 table of contents company will continue to defer significant cash income taxes to future years. the company has in the past and will continue in the future to pay significant cash taxes to the various taxing jurisdictions where it operates. the company expects to be able to continue to meet such obligations utilizing cash and investments on hand, as well as cash generated from its ongoing operations. off-balance sheet arrangements, contractual obligations, and contingent liabilities and commitments the company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. the company received 34 boeing 737-800 aircraft in 2012, 29 of which were new aircraft purchased from boeing and five of which were leased from a third party. the company also retired 38 older leased and owned 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft from service during 2012. under the company agreement with boeing, it has the option to substitute 737-600s for the 737-700s ordered with at least 24 months notice prior to the contractual delivery date and can substitute 737-800s for the 737-700s with at least twelve months notice. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for a complete table of the company firm orders, options, and purchase rights with boeing. for aircraft commitments with boeing, the company is required to make cash deposits toward the purchase of aircraft in advance. these deposits are classified as deposits on flight equipment purchase contracts in the consolidated balance sheet until the aircraft is delivered, at which time deposits previously made are deducted from the final purchase price of the aircraft and are reclassified as flight equipment. the leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) provides flexibility to the company as a source of financing. although the company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has not made guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the end of the lease terms. as of december 31, 2012, the company operated 189 leased aircraft, of which 187 are under operating leases. as prescribed by gaap, assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the company consolidated balance sheet. disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the company leased aircraft is included below as well as in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the majority of obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. outstanding letters of credit totaled $208 million at december 31, 2012. the company is a well-known seasoned issuer and has an effective shelf registration statement registering an indeterminate amount of debt or equity securities for future sales. the company intends to use the proceeds from any future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes. the company has not issued any securities under this shelf registration statement to date. the company also has an $800 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which provides flexibility in the company cash management and planning activities. no amounts were outstanding under this facility at december 31, 2012. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 61 table of contents the following table aggregates the company material expected contractual obligations and commitments as of december 31, 2012: obligations by period (in millions) contractual obligations 2013 2014 - 2015 2016 - 2017 beyond 2017 total long-term debt (1) $ 251 $ 730 $ 1,062 $ 954 $ 2,997 interest commitments - fixed (2) 142 236 159 164 701 interest commitments - floating (3) 13 26 19 4 62 operating lease commitments (4) 688 1,121 761 1,823 4,393 capital lease commitments (5) 5 12 11 18 46 aircraft purchase commitments (6) 619 2,195 2,740 6,521 12,075 other commitments 198 151 60 409 total contractual obligations $ 1,916 $ 4,471 $ 4,812 $ 9,484 $ 20,683 (1) includes principal only and includes $68 million in 2013 associated with the company convertible senior notes due 2016. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) related to fixed-rate debt only. (3) interest obligations associated with floating-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) is estimated utilizing forward interest rate curves as of december 31, 2012 and can be subject to significant fluctuation. (4) includes love field modernization program commitment amounts, and includes the impact of the boeing 717 lease/sublease transaction entered into in 2012. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements (5) includes interest on capital leases. (6) firm orders from boeing. the company has flexibility as to the timing for certain of the firm orders in 2014 through 2017, but has classified the amounts in the earliest year they could be considered a commitment. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the company expects to incur substantial integration and closing costs associated with the acquisition of airtran, a portion of which were incurred in 2010, 2011, and 2012 and which have been, and are expected to continue to be, funded with cash. the company believes that its current liquidity position, including unrestricted cash and short-term investments of $3.0 billion as of december 31, 2012, anticipated future internally generated funds from operations, and its fully available, unsecured revolving credit facility of $800 million, will enable it to meet these future integration expenditures. the company will continue to consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize liquidity and supplement cash requirements as needed. the company believes it has access to financing arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, unencumbered assets, modest leverage, and consistent profitability, which should enable it to meet its ongoing capital, operating, and other liquidity requirements. as of december 31, 2012, the book value of the company unencumbered aircraft totaled approximately $6.8 billion. in january 2008, the company board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company common stock. through february 15, 2008, the company had repurchased 4.4 million shares for a total of approximately $54 million, at which time repurchases under the program were suspended. on august 5, 2011, the company board of directors authorized the company to resume a share repurchase program and approved the company repurchase, on a discretionary basis, of up to $500 million of the company common stock following such authorization. on may 16, 2012, the company board of directors increased the previous share repurchase authorization by an additional $500 million. during 2012, the company purchased approximately 45.5 million shares of its common stock for approximately $400 million, which brings its cumulative purchases under this program since the august 2011 authorization to approximately 73.0 million shares for approximately $625 million of the $1 billion in total authorized by the board. repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions, and may be discontinued at any time. during 2008, the city of dallas approved the love field modernization program (lfmp), a project to reconstruct dallas love field (airport) with modern, convenient air travel facilities. pursuant to a program development agreement (pda) with the city of dallas and the love field airport modernization corporation (or 62 table of contents lfamc, a texas non-profit local government corporation established by the city to act on the city behalf to facilitate the development of the lfmp), the company is managing this project. although subject to change, the project is expected to include the renovation of the airport airline terminals and complete replacement of gate facilities with a new 20-gate facility, including infrastructure, systems and equipment, aircraft parking apron, fueling system, roadways and terminal curbside, baggage handling systems, passenger loading bridges and support systems, and other supporting infrastructure. major construction commenced during 2010. new ticketing and checkin areas opened during fourth quarter 2012 and 12 new gates and new concession areas are expected to open in second quarter 2013. full completion of the project is scheduled for second half of 2014. during fourth quarter 2010, the lfamc issued $310 million in tax-exempt facility revenue bonds (lfmp bonds), the proceeds of which have been or will be used: (1) to finance a significant portion of the ongoing costs of the lfmp; and (2) to reimburse the company for approximately $80 million in early lfmp expenditures made (such expenditures and reimbursement were authorized pursuant to a june 25, 2008 inducement resolution approved by the dallas city council and subsequent resolutions by the lfamc). repayment of the lfmp bonds will be through the facilities payments described below. reimbursement of the company for its payment of facilities payments are expected to be made through recurring ground rents, fees, and other revenues collected at the airport. an additional tranche of such bonds totaling $146 million was issued during second quarter 2012. the company has guaranteed principal, premium, and interest on the issued bonds. it is currently expected that the total amount spent on the lfmp project will be approximately $519 million. the company currently expects that no further bond issuances will be required to complete the lfmp project. prior to the issuance of the lfmp bonds by the lfamc, the company entered into two separate funding agreements: (1) a facilities agreement pursuant to which the company is obligated to make debt service payments on the principal and interest amounts associated with the lfmp bonds (facilities payments), less other sources of funds the city of dallas may apply to the repayment of the lfmp bonds (including but not limited to passenger facility charges collected from passengers originating from the airport); and (2) a revenue credit agreement pursuant to which the city of dallas will reimburse the company for the facilities payments made by the company. a majority of the monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement are expected to originate from a reimbursement account created in the use and lease agreement between the city of dallas and the company. the use and lease agreement is a 20-year agreement providing for, among other things, the company lease of space at the airport from the city of dallas. the remainder of such monies transferred from the city of dallas to the company under the revenue credit agreement is expected to originate from (1) use and lease agreements with other airlines, (2) various concession agreements, and (3) other airport miscellaneous revenues. the company liquidity could be impacted by the lfmp to the extent there are timing differences between the company payment of the facilities payments pursuant to the facilities agreement and the transfer of monies back to the company pursuant to the revenue credit agreement; however, the company does not currently expect that to occur. the lfmp is not expected to have a significant impact on the company capital resources or financial position. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information and accounting requirements related to the lfmp. critical accounting policies and estimates the company consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with gaap. the company significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with gaap requires the company management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. the company estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. however, actual results may differ from estimates under different 63 table of contents conditions, sometimes materially. critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that both (i) are most important to the portrayal of the company financial condition and results and (ii) require management most subjective judgments. the company most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. revenue recognition tickets sold for passenger air travel are initially deferred as air traffic liability. passenger revenue is recognized and air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). air traffic liability primarily represents tickets sold for future travel dates and estimated future refunds and exchanges of tickets sold for past travel dates. the balance in air traffic liability, which includes a portion of the company liability associated with its frequent flyer program, fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns, fare sale activity, and activity associated with the company frequent flyer programs. for air travel on southwest, the amount of tickets that will expire unused are estimated and recognized in passenger revenue once the scheduled flight date has passed. estimating the amount of tickets that will expire unused, be refunded, or exchanged involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. the majority of southwest tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of unused tickets. according to southwest contract of carriage, tickets (whether refundable or nonrefundable) that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or can be refunded (if the ticket is refundable). this policy also applies to unused customer funds that may be left over from exchanging a less expensive ticket for a previously purchased ticket that was more expensive. a small percentage of tickets (or partial tickets) expire unused. fully refundable tickets are rarely forfeited. estimates of tickets that will expire unused are based on historical experience over many years. southwest and other airlines have consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from unused tickets at the date of scheduled travel. holding other factors constant, a 10 percent change in the company estimate of the amount of tickets that will expire unused would have resulted in a $33 million, or 0.22 percent, change in passenger revenues recognized for 2012. events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical customer travel patterns can result in actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeited tickets differing significantly from estimates. the company evaluates its estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. if actual refunds, exchanges, or forfeiture experience results in an amount outside of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to air traffic liability and to passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. additional factors that may affect estimated refunds and exchanges include, but may not be limited to, changes to the company ticketing policies, the company refund, exchange, and unused funds policies, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares, promotional fare activity, and the impact of the economic environment on customer behavior. the company estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual refund, exchange, and forfeiture activity may vary from estimated amounts. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future refunds, exchanges, and forfeited tickets would be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. accounting for long-lived assets flight equipment and related assets make up the majority of the company long-lived assets. flight equipment primarily relates to the 497 boeing 737 aircraft and 10 boeing 717 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2012, which are either owned or on capital lease. the remaining 109 boeing 737 aircraft and 78 boeing 717 aircraft in the company fleet at december 31, 2012, are operated under operating leases. in accounting for long-lived assets, the company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and their future expected cash flows. 64 table of contents the following table shows a breakdown of the company long-lived asset groups along with information about estimated useful lives and residual values for new assets generally purchased from the manufacturer: estimated useful life estimated residual value airframes and engines 23 to 25 years 2%-20% aircraft parts fleet life 4% ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0%-10% in estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the company primarily has relied upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market information, and recommendations from boeing. aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the number of cycles flown (one take-off and landing) as well as the aircraft age. the company has made a conversion of cycles into years based on both historical and anticipated future utilization of the aircraft. subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes to aircraft maintenance programs, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation and amortization expense. for example, during fourth quarter 2010, and again in third quarter 2012, the company changed the estimated residual values of its entire remaining fleet of owned 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft. based on current and expected future market conditions related to these aircraft, as well as a significant change in the way the company expects to utilize the fleet, the company reduced the residual values of these aircraft. this fleet originally had residual values of approximately 15 percent of original cost, but based on current estimates, now has residual values of approximately two percent of original cost. this determination was made based on the continuous assessment of the market for these older aircraft, as many buyers of used aircraft prefer newer, more fuel efficient models, and the increase in the number of airlines retiring these older aircraft, which has increased the supply of older aircraft on the market. as this reduction in residual value is considered a change in estimate, it was accounted for on a prospective basis, and thus the company has effectively accelerated the recording of depreciation expense over the remainder of the useful lives for each aircraft in each instance. the company does not believe these changes in estimates towards the end of the useful lives for a given fleet type are unusual, especially given the rapid pace of technological advancement, volatile fuel prices, and recent significant transactions involving the company fleet. the 2012 reduction in estimated salvage value resulted in a $34 million increase in depreciation expense during the second half of the year, and is expected to increase 2013 expense by approximately $58 million. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment. factors that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset physical condition, and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. the company has continued to operate virtually all of its aircraft, generate positive cash flow, and produce operating profits. consequently, the company has not identified any impairment related to its existing aircraft fleet. the company will continue to monitor its long-lived assets and the airline operating environment. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. 65 table of contents financial derivative instruments the company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information on these risk management activities, and see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the company fuel hedging program and financial derivative instruments. all derivatives are required to be reflected at fair value and recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2012, the company was a party to over 1,100 separate financial derivative instruments, related to its fuel hedging program, for the years 2013 through 2017. changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity prices, as has been evident in recent years. for example, during 2011, market spot prices for west texas intermediate crude oil peaked at a high of approximately $114 per barrel and hit a low price of approximately $76 per barrel. during 2012, market spot prices ranged from a high of $110 per barrel to a low of $78 per barrel. market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, value of the u.s. dollar, geopolitical events, and general economic conditions, among other items. the financial derivative instruments utilized by the company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, and fixed price swap agreements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in over-the-counter markets. since the majority of the company financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the company estimates their fair values. depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. also, since there is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel, the company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices. forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted based on variations of those like commodities to the company ultimate expected price to be paid for jet fuel at the specific locations in which the company hedges. fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle and the time that jet fuel is purchased and consumed, respectively. however, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. in some historical periods, because of increased volatility in energy markets, the company has in fact lost hedge accounting for a certain type of commodity, such as all unleaded gasoline derivative instruments. there have also been instances in which the company has lost hedge accounting in specific geographic locations for certain types of commodities used in hedging. at such times, the company has marked all such derivatives to fair value in each quarterly period, with all changes in value reflected as a component of other (gains) losses, net in the consolidated statement of income. the company did not lose hedge accounting for an entire commodity during 2012, 2011, or 2010. although the company prospective assessment has been utilized to ensure that the commodities used in most cases still qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. this is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. increased volatility in these commodity markets for an extended period of time, especially if such volatility were to worsen, could cause the company to lose hedge accounting altogether for the commodities used in its fuel hedging program, which would create further volatility in the company financial results. estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also result in changes in their fair values from period to period and thus determine their accounting treatment. to the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness 66 table of contents of the fuel hedge can result. this could result in the immediate recording of non-cash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period. likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded every period to other (gains) and losses, net in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the change. ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related commodities, especially given the past volatility in the prices of refined products. due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the company is unable to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. this may result, and has historically resulted, in increased volatility in the company financial statements. the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on the change in fair value of derivative contracts settling in future periods recorded during historical periods has been due to a number of factors. these factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the company uses for mitigation of fuel price volatility. the discontinuation of hedge accounting for specific hedges and for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, can also be a result of these factors. depending on the level at which the company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the company hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued variability recorded in the consolidated statement of income, and furthermore, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. this is primarily because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large volumes. the company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting expected future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. these estimates are an important component used in the measurement of effectiveness for the company fuel hedges. the current methodology used by the company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific geographic locations in which the company hedges. the company then adjusts for certain items, such as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. this methodology for estimating expected future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2012, 2011, and 2010, and has not changed for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods. the company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices would be made or reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time estimates were made. fair value measurements the company utilizes unobservable (level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2012, these included auction rate security investments, valued at $36 million, a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were a net asset of $219 million, and $5 million in other investments. all of the company auction rate security instruments are reflected at estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. in prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30-35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would have qualified as level 1. however, due to events in credit markets beginning during first quarter 2008, the auctions for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, the company has determined the estimated fair values of these securities utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis or other type of valuation model, which qualify the instruments as level 3. the 67 table of contents company analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, estimates of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction or return to full par value, forecasted reset rates based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or the issuer net loan rate, and a counterparty credit spread. in association with this estimate of fair value, the company has recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of $14 million, with an offsetting entry to aoci. given the quality and backing of the company auction rate securities held, the fact that the company has not yet recorded a loss on the sale of any of these instruments, and the fact that it has been able to periodically sell instruments back to the issuer, it believes it can continue to account for the estimated reduction in fair value of its remaining securities as temporary. these conclusions will also continue to be evaluated and challenged in subsequent periods. the company currently believes that this temporary decline in fair value is due entirely to liquidity issues, because the underlying assets for the majority of securities are almost entirely backed by the u.s. government. in addition, these auction rate securities represented less than two percent of the company total cash, cash equivalents, and investment balance at december 31, 2012, which the company believes allows sufficient time for the auction rate securities to return to full value. at the time of the first failed auctions during first quarter 2008, the company held a total of $463 million in auction rate securities. since that time, the company has been able to redeem $413 million of these instruments at par value. the company determines the fair value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing an option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. in situations where the company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. the company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily implied volatility), the company has categorized these option contracts as level 3. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, any changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within aoci until the period in which the expected future cash flow impacts earnings. any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that are ineffective, as defined, or that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are reflected in earnings within other (gains) losses, net, in the period of the change. because the company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the company derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the company financial statements. in addition, the company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the company) to provide cash collateral when the fair value of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the company outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the company estimate of fair values. frequent flyer accounting southwest and airtran utilize estimates in the recognition of liabilities associated with their respective frequent flyer programs. these estimates primarily include the liability associated with frequent flyer member account balances that are expected to be redeemed for travel or other products at a future date, and frequent flyer awards or certificates that have been issued, are outstanding, and are expected to be redeemed at a future date. frequent flyer account balances include points/credits earned through flights taken, points sold to customers, or points/credits earned through business partners participating in the frequent flyer programs. 68 table of contents in march 2011, southwest launched its all-new rapid rewards frequent flyer program. under the current program, members earn points for every dollar spent, whereas, under the prior program members earned credits for flight segments flown. the amount of points earned under the current program is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products ( e.g. , business select) earning more points than lower fare products ( e.g., wanna get away). each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. however , unlike southwest previous program, under the current program, (i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the rapid rewards member has points-earning activity during a 24-month time period. in addition, southwest co-branded chase visa credit card holders are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on southwest airlines, such as international flights, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. in addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with rapid rewards partners, rapid rewards members also have the ability to purchase points. as part of southwest transition to the current program, southwest did not convert members account balances under the previous program, but is allowing members to continue to redeem those balances for award travel under the prior program rules for a period of time. at december 31, 2012, the amount of awards and credits issued under the previous program that are expected to be redeemed was not material. airtran operates its a+ rewards frequent flyer program, which allows customers the opportunity to earn free roundtrip travel awards or business class upgrades on airtran flights. a+ rewards credits are earned through flights, purchases made with an airtran airways a+ visa card or an airtran a+ rewards chase visa credit card (collectively, the airtran a+ cards ), qualifying car rentals from hertz, purchases from other a+ rewards partners, and in conjunction with certain marketing promotions. under certain circumstances, customers may also redeem frequent flyer awards for free travel on other airlines. both southwest and airtran utilize the incremental cost method of accounting for points and/or credits earned through flights taken in their respective frequent flyer programs. a liability is recorded for the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel as points and/or credits are being earned. the liability recorded represents the total number of points and/or credits expected to be redeemed by members, regardless of whether the members may have enough to qualify for a full travel award. the incremental cost liability is primarily composed of direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to fixed overhead costs or profit. at december 31, 2012, southwest and airtran consolidated incremental cost liability, including both the liability remaining from southwest previous program and the liability associated with its new frequent flyer program, was approximately $74 million. southwest and airtran also sell frequent flyer points and/or credits and related services to business partners participating in the respective frequent flyer programs. the majority of the points and/or credits sold to business partners are through the southwest co-branded chase visa credit card or the airtran a+ cards. funds received from the sale of points and/or credits associated with these agreements are accounted for under the residual method. under the residual method, as of december 31, 2012, southwest estimates that 100 percent of the amount received from frequent flyer points sold associated with southwest co-branded chase visa credit card relates to free travel. this is due to the significant increase in southwest average fare in recent years, while the average value received from business partners for the purchase of points has remained relatively flat. therefore, for accounting purposes the company currently assigns no value associated with items such as business partner access to southwest frequent flyer program population for marketing/solicitation purposes, use of the southwest logo on the co-branded chase visa credit cards, and other trademarks, designs, images, etc., of southwest for use in marketing materials. prior to 2012, the apportioned amount estimated to be associated with free travel as opposed to marketing services had historically ranged from 75 percent to 92 percent. the estimated amounts associated with free travel are deferred and recognized as passenger revenue when the ultimate free travel awards are flown. for all points sold to business partners that are expected to expire unused, the company recognizes spoilage in accordance with the redemption method. for any portion of funds received that is deemed 69 table of contents not to be associated with future travel, the company has determined that the period revenue is recognized is the period in which it has fulfilled its obligation under the contract signed with the particular business partner, which is on a monthly or quarterly basis, upon sale, as the related marketing services are performed or provided. the vast majority of these marketing services consist of the access granted, either monthly or quarterly, to various lists of southwest frequent flyer members. the estimated amount that is not associated with free travel is recognized in other revenue in the period earned. for airtran, 100 percent of amounts received for credits sold is also estimated to relate to free travel and is deferred until the associated travel award is flown. under its current program, southwest continues to estimate the portion of frequent flyer points that will not be redeemed. these estimates are based on experience in its previous program and expectations of customer behavior given the rules of the current program. however, since the current program is still relatively new, these estimates may result in significant future adjustments based on actual experience. goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of the company acquisition of airtran on may 2, 2011, the company has reflected goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet in the amount of $970 million at december 31, 2012, representing the excess of the fair value of airtran assets and liabilities over its book value on the acquisition date. in addition, the company has recorded other intangible assets totaling approximately $123 million at december 31, 2012, primarily consisting of leasehold rights to airport gates, take-off and landing slots at certain domestic slot-controlled airports and certain intangible assets recognized as part of the valuation of airtran. all of the company intangible assets are, other than goodwill, finite-lived and are being amortized over their estimated economic useful lives. goodwill is not amortized, but will continue to be tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. the company has selected october 1st as its annual testing date for goodwill impairment. the company applies a fair value based methodology in testing the carrying value of goodwill for its one reporting unit. key assumptions and/or estimates made in the company 2012 goodwill impairment test included the following: (i) a long-term projection of revenues, expenses, and cash flows; (ii) an estimated weighted average cost of capital of 9.5 percent; and (iii) a tax rate of 38.5 percent. the company believes these assumptions are consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were present at the time the estimates were made. however, actual results and amounts may be significantly different from the company estimates. future impairment of goodwill may result from changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the company control. factors which could result in an impairment, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to the company operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. 70 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps, commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. as of december 31, 2012, southwest and airtran operated a total of 189 aircraft under operating and capital leases. however, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. commitments related to leases are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the company financial derivative instruments. hedging the company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through execution of a documented hedging strategy. the company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant increases in fuel prices. the company believes there is significant risk in not hedging against the possibility of such fuel price increases. the company expects to consume approximately 1.8 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2013. based on this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the company fuel and oil expense by approximately $18 million for 2013, excluding any impact associated with fuel derivative instruments held. as of december 31, 2012, the company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2013 through 2017. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed with various counterparties. the gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related to the company jet fuel market price risk at december 31, 2012, was a net asset of $219 million. in addition, no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company in connection with these instruments based on their fair value as of december 31, 2012. the fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. an immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related commodity prices from the december 31, 2012 (for all years from 2013 through 2017) prices would correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by approximately $340 million. fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices as well as related income tax effects. in addition, this does not consider changes in cash collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each counterparty. this sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs constant at december 31, 2012 levels, except underlying futures prices. the company credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net positive fair value to the company. at such times, these outstanding instruments expose the company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. as of december 31, 2012, the company had eight counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net asset, totaling $230 million. to manage credit risk, the company selects and will periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty with collateral support agreements, and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each counterparty. however, if one or more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the company and were unable to meet their obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination, which could result in substantial losses for the company. at december 31, 2012, the company had agreements with all of its 71 table of contents counterparties containing early termination rights triggered by credit rating thresholds and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty credit rating. the company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, lines of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds cash is either posted by the counterparty if the value of derivatives is an asset to the company, or cash, lines or credit, and/or aircraft could be posted by the company if the value of derivatives is a liability to the company. refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of december 31, 2012, at which such postings are triggered. at december 31, 2012, no cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or aircraft collateral were provided by or held by the company based on its outstanding fuel derivative instrument portfolio. due to the terms of the company current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types of derivatives held, in the company judgment, it does not have significant additional exposure to future cash collateral requirements. as an example, if market prices for the commodities used in the company fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from market prices as of december 31, 2012, given the company fuel derivative portfolio, its aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional $669 million in cash, letters of credit, and/or aircraft collateral to its current counterparties. however, the company would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations. the company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price volatility do not provide adequate protection. a portion of the fuel derivatives in the company hedge portfolio are based on the market price of west texas intermediate crude oil (wti). in some periods, the spread between wti and jet fuel has widened beyond historic norms, which has led to more ineffectiveness when measuring the company hedges. during those time periods, jet fuel prices have more closely correlated with changes in the price of brent crude oil (brent). the company has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on brent crude. although the company has some fuel derivatives based on the price of brent, to the extent the spread between jet fuel and wti continues to fluctuate, a portion of the change in fair value of the company hedges could continue to experience ineffectiveness and not provide complete protection against jet fuel price volatility. the company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the company and its counterparty credit ratings. as of december 31, 2012, $66 million had been provided to one counterparty associated with interest rate derivatives based on the company outstanding net liability derivative position with that counterparty. in addition, in connection with interest rate swaps entered into by airtran, a total of $23 million in cash collateral had been provided to one counterparty at december 31, 2012, as a result of a net liability derivative position with that counterparty. the outstanding interest rate net derivative positions with all other counterparties at december 31, 2012, were assets to the company. due to the significance of the company fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the company places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the company has created a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. for example, the company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management; (iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. the company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program. 72 table of contents financial market risk the vast majority of the company tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. the company strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the right conditions. while the company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance sheet and has a bbb rating with fitch, a bbb- rating with standard &amp; poor s, and a baa3 credit rating with moody as of december 31, 2012, all of which are considered investment grade. the company french credit agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. in addition, as disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company has converted certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into interest rate swap agreements. although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the french credit agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the company may prepay this debt under certain conditions. see notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the material terms of the company short-term and long-term debt. as of december 31, 2012, excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating rate, the company fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $350 million 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2014, its $300 million 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2017, and its $100 million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. each of these notes had previously been converted to floating rates, but in 2011 and 2012, the company terminated the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to them. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the effect of these terminations was that the interest associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. as a result of the gains realized on these transactions, which will be amortized over the remaining term of the corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the company does not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination, associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the notes remained at floating rates. the company believes the fixed interest rates associated with each of these notes are comparable to average rates prevailing for similar debt instruments over the last ten years. the following table displays the characteristics of the company secured fixed rate debt as of december 31, 2012: principal amount (in millions) effective fixed rate final maturity underlying collateral term loan agreement $ 241 6.315 % 5/6/2019 14 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 95 6.84 % 7/1/2019 5 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft term loan agreement 451 5.223 % 5/9/2020 21 specified boeing 737-700 aircraft the carrying value of the company floating rate debt totaled $610 million, and this debt had a weighted-average maturity of 5.01 years at floating rates averaging 2.62 percent for the year ended december 31, 2012. in total, the company fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented 17.7 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at december 31, 2012. the company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of its invested cash, which totaled $1.1 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $1.9 billion, at december 31, 2012. see notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. the company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, u.s. government agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and operating cash requirements. as a result of turmoil in credit markets, the company has discontinued further investments in auction rate securities. because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. the company has not undertaken any additional actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate risk management activities. 73 table of contents a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2012, would not have a material effect on the fair value of the company fixed-rate debt instruments. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. a change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows associated with the company floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate nature of these items. assuming floating market rates in effect as of december 31, 2012 were held constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an immaterial impact on the company net earnings and cash flows. utilizing these assumptions and considering the company cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2012, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the company earnings and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the company earnings and cash flows. however, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the company earnings or cash flow associated with the company publicly traded fixed-rate debt. the company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty agreements. certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are based on changes in these ratings. the company revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. as of december 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. however, if conditions change and the company fails to meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. seven of the company hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which cash collateral would be required to be posted with the counterparty if the company credit rating were to fall below investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the company were in a net liability position with the counterparty. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. as of december 31, 2012, no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the company under these provisions. if the company credit rating had been below investment grade as of that date, the company would have been required to post approximately $11 million in additional cash collateral deposits with fuel hedge counterparties. the company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by its customers utilizing american express, discover and mastercard/visa. credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the company soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor will have liability if the company does not ultimately provide the air travel. under these processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could be required to be posted with the counterparty. a majority of the company sales transactions are processed by chase paymentech. should chargebacks processed by chase paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other disputed charges that might occur. additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the company credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. cash reserve requirements are based on the company public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the company air traffic liability. as of december 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements. however, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company believes that it will be able to continue to renew its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors in the future. 74 table of contents