risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes automotive, marking, electronics and photovoltaic applications. approximately 76% of our revenues in 2009 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. in 2009, our sales decreased by approximately 25% in the materials processing market as a result of the global economic recession during 2009. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital 17 table of contents expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically-integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yttrium aluminum garnet (yag) lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base. extend our product line to address new applications for our products; continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position; and if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber 18 table of contents lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 76% of our 1,430 employees as of december 31, 2009 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we started adding substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia beginning in 2005. we continue to expand our capacity further in russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invested significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $10.5 million and $37.1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $25 million in capital expenditures, including acquisitions, in 2010. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, 19 table of contents production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices (asps) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users, and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $5.3 million, $3.8 million and $2.5 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since 20 table of contents patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us. we are presently defending two patent infringement lawsuits. in november 2006, imra america, inc. filed an action against us alleging that certain products we produce, including but not limited to our continuous wave and pulsed fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, which account for a significant portion of our revenues, infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america alleges willful infringement and seeks damages of at least $10 million, treble damages and injunctive relief. imra america also alleges inducement of infringement and contributory infringement. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and raised additional defenses that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. in addition, we filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on these three defenses. this lawsuit concerns products made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states and therefore the lawsuit affects products that account for a substantial portion of our revenues. this lawsuit does not affect revenues that are derived from products that are not made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states. imra america has informed us that it has patents and applications in foreign jurisdictions directed to similar subject matter as the patent subject to this lawsuit, but has not asserted them against us. in june 2008, the u.s. patent and trademark office ( uspto ) ordered re-examination of the patent claims asserted by imra america against the company based on several prior art references that we submitted in an ex parte re-examination request. in july 2009, the uspto confirmed the patentability of all of the claims in the imra america patent over the prior art cited in the re-examination, as well as of new claims added during the re-examination. in august 2009, ipg submitted an additional re-examination request, which was denied by the uspto. the uspto issued a re-examination certificate in october 2009. as a result, the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan lifted the stay on the litigation. a trial is scheduled for august 2010 and discovery has recommenced. in february 2008, cardiofocus inc. filed an action against us and other co-defendants alleging that our erbium and thulium fiber lasers infringe one patent allegedly owned by cardiofocus and seeking unspecified damages, treble damages and attorneys fees for alleged willful infringement. cardiofocus also alleges inducement of infringement. the patent claims generally relate to a system for transmitting laser energy via an optical fiber to a surgical site. the patent expired in april 2007. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and raised additional defenses that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. in addition, we filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on these three defenses. cardiofocus subsequently alleged that the company infringes claims of two additional patents. we and several of our co-defendants filed re-examination requests, which were granted by the uspto. as a result of three separate office actions in the second half of 2009, the uspto rejected a substantial number of claims in the three patents, many of which cardiofocus disclaimed, and the uspto confirmed the patentability of several other claims of these patents. the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts initially stayed the litigation until the earlier of october 2009 or the conclusion of the re-examinations, and indicated that it will consider extending the stay for up to an additional year for good cause shown. we and the other defendants have requested that the court extend the stay until the earlier of october 2010 or the conclusion of the re-examinations. the court has not yet ruled on this request, and discovery has not yet resumed. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect the litigations with imra america or cardiofocus, claims or other allegations made against us and claims that may be asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation, including the pending litigation, is uncertain, as is the outcome of any remaining re-examination of the cardiofocus patents. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. 21 table of contents if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardiofocus, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardiofocus that we are presently defending, could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon intellectual property of others, which may be costly or impractical. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. although we acquired a patent portfolio in 2008 and started a program in 2007 to increase the number of patent applications we file, our patents do not cover all of our technologies, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. 22 table of contents given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. in 2009, some of our suppliers reduced their inventory levels and manufacturing capacity as a result of the recession, and we may experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 71, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh, dr. eugene shcherbakov, age 62, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our 23 table of contents executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 12%, 17% and 20% of our consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. our largest customer accounted for 3%, 7% and 7% of sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; 24 table of contents the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory write-downs; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2009, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial 25 table of contents impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2 and yag lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, mpb communications inc. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers increased and some have introduced high-power fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. many of the laser companies that we compete with are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. our products are currently marketed and sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia and china are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; 26 table of contents less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. 27 table of contents we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents, technologies and geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, 28 table of contents modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. our ability to access financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the u.s. and germany expire in july 2011 and june 2010, respectively. market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. we may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, controls approximately 41% of our voting power and has a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director and majority owner, beneficially own approximately 41% of our common stock. dr. gapontsev has a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev may vote his shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. dr. gapontsev significant ownership interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 29 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement, could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2009, we had 46,076,000 shares of common stock outstanding and 3,028,000 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of our unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144, rule 144(k) or rule 701. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market, and subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 30 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is effectively fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 75% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2009. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions totaled a $1.0 million loss in 2009 and a $2.8 million gain in 2008. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in additional financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. no foreign currency derivative instruments were outstanding at december 31, 2009.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes automotive, marking, electronics and photovoltaic applications. approximately 84% of our revenues in 2010 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. in 2009, our sales decreased by approximately 25% in the materials processing market as a result of the global economic recession. in 2010, sales in this market rebounded with a 79% increase. for the foreseeable future, our 17 table of contents operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically-integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yttrium aluminum garnet (yag) lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base. extend our product line to address new applications for our products; continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position; and if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber 18 table of contents lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 78% of our 1,760 employees as of december 31, 2010 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we added substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia in the period from 2005 to 2008. beginning in 2010, we entered another phase of expanding capacity at those manufacturing facilities. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invested significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $28.4 million and $10.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $50 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2011. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, 19 table of contents production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices (asps) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users, and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $2.7 million, $5.3 million and $3.8 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since 20 table of contents patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us and in 2010 we settled another patent infringement lawsuit filed against us. we are presently defending one patent infringement lawsuit. in november 2006, imra america, inc. filed an action against us alleging that certain products we produce, including but not limited to our continuous wave and pulsed fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, which account for a significant portion of our revenues, infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america alleged willful infringement and sought damages of at least $10 million, treble damages and injunctive relief. imra america also alleged inducement of infringement and contributory infringement. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and raised additional defenses that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. in addition, we filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on these three defenses. this lawsuit concerns products made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states and therefore the lawsuit affects products that account for a substantial portion of our revenues. this lawsuit does not affect revenues that are derived from products that are not made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states. in june 2008, the u.s. patent and trademark office ( uspto ) ordered re-examination of the patent claims asserted by imra america against the company based on several prior art references that we submitted in an ex parte re-examination request. in july 2009, the uspto confirmed the patentability of all of the claims in the imra america patent over the prior art cited in the re-examination, as well as of new claims added during the re-examination. in august 2009, we submitted an additional re-examination request, which was denied by the uspto. the uspto issued a re-examination certificate in october 2009. as a result, the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan lifted the stay on the litigation. the district court adopted the claim construction of imra on one of the four claim terms, but did not decide the others. in march 2011, the district court granted our motion for summary judgment of no marking, precluding imra from seeking damages for any alleged infringing products sold prior to november 16, 2006, the date the lawsuit was filed, with the exception of four particular alleged infringing products, as to which imra is precluded from seeking damages for sales prior to august 6, 2006. the district court denied our motions for summary judgment on non-infringement, invalidity, no willful infringement and laches, and granted imra for summary judgment on no invalidity for derivation and no equitable misconduct. the trial date has not been scheduled. imra america has informed us that it has patents and applications in foreign jurisdictions directed to similar subject matter as the patent subject to this lawsuit, but has not asserted them against us. the company has filed oppositions to two imra patents in japan and germany. in japan, the patent office invalidated two claims and maintained 49 claims of the imra patent. the german opposition is still pending. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect the litigation with imra america, claims or other allegations made against us and claims that may be asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation, including the pending litigation, is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuit brought 21 table of contents by imra america that we are presently defending, could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon intellectual property of others, which may be costly or impractical. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. although we acquired a patent portfolio in 2008 and started a program in 2007 to increase the number of patent applications we file, our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or 22 table of contents the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers reduced their inventory levels and manufacturing capacity because of the recent recession. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 72, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh, dr. eugene shcherbakov, age 63, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. 23 table of contents failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 19%, 12% and 17% of our consolidated net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. our largest customer accounted for 7%, 3% and 7% of sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; 24 table of contents our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory write-downs; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2010, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. 25 table of contents the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag and disc lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, mpb communications inc. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and some have introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. our have significant facilities in and our products aresold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia and china are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers, and we have substantial tangible assets, outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; 26 table of contents political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. recently, a russian investor purchased a minority interest in nto ire-polus. as a minority investor, they have rights under russian law, as well as under our negotiated agreements with them. even though we control a supermajority of the shares and a majority of the board, certain actions require unanimous shareholder approval, including changes to capital, additional investments, use of proceeds other than initially agreed to uses and amounts, distributions, transactions in excess of agreed upon amounts and related party transactions. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. 27 table of contents we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents, technologies and geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, 28 table of contents modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. our ability to access financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the u.s. and germany expire in june 2015 and june 2012, respectively. market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. we may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer and two trusts he created control approximately 42% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with two trusts he created beneficially own approximately 42% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 29 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement, could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2010, we had 46,988,566 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 2,736,000 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of our unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144, or rule 701. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market, and subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 30 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 50 table of contents our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is effectively fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 71% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2010. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions totaled a $0.8 million gain in 2010 and a $1.0 million loss in 2009. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in additional financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. no foreign currency derivative instruments were outstanding at december 31, 2010.risk factors 16 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. our future growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our future growth will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where traditional lasers, such as co 2 and yttrium aluminum garnet (yag) lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; extend our product line to address new applications for our products; continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position; and effectively service and support our installed product base. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, prospects for our growth and profitability may be negatively impacted. the fiber laser market is relatively new when compared to the conventional laser market and our future success depends on the development and broader market acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to traditional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology, and of our fiber lasers in particular, does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and we may need to incur significant costs to address the operational requirements related to our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. we have been experiencing a period of significant growth and expansion, both in the united states and internationally, which has required, and will continue to require, increased efforts of our management and other resources. our recent and anticipated growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant 16 table of contents strain on our research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. to manage our growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employees. for example, we must implement new modules of our management information system, hire and train new sales representatives, service and application personnel, and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. this may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. if we fail to adequately manage our expected growth, or to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively motivate or manage our new and future employees, the quality of our products and the management of our operations could suffer and our operating results could be adversely affected. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event of a reduction in demand for our products. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 840 of our 1,040 employees as of december 31, 2006 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we cannot adjust these fixed costs quickly to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is greatly impacted by our sales volume and the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risk of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. given our vertical integration, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory and changes in our level of inventory to lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when it is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory is increasing. we may be required to write down inventory costs in the future as we have done in the past, and the high inventory costs may have an adverse effect on our gross profits and our operating results. we are subject to lawsuits alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we are presently defending two patent infringement lawsuits brought by the scientific-atlanta division of cisco systems, inc., and imra america, inc. see item 3, legal proceedings. the scientific-atlanta allegations generally relate to erbium and ytterbium co-doped optical fiber, and certain products that incorporate such fiber. scientific-atlanta in its complaint alleges willful infringement of one u.s. patent and seeks damages in an unspecified amount, treble damages and injunctive relief. imra america allegations generally relate to certain unspecified fiber amplifiers that we produce and also allege inducement of infringement and contributory infringement without specifying any of our products. imra america in its complaint alleges willful infringement of one u.s. patent and seeks damages of at least $10 million, treble damages and injunctive relief. these lawsuits concern products made, used, sold, offered for sale, or imported in the united states and therefore these lawsuits affect products that contribute a substantial portion of our revenues. these lawsuits do not affect revenues that are derived from products that are not made, used, sold, offered for sale or imported in the united states. imra america and other parties have notified us 17 table of contents that they believe certain of our fiber lasers and amplifiers, or the use of these products, infringe the respective parties patents. the subject matter of these assertions is products that contribute a substantial portion of our revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to amicably dispose of our pending litigations with scientific-atlanta and imra america, claims or other allegations made against us and claims that may be asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation, including the pending litigations, is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants against us may have greater financial resources and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by scientific-atlanta and imra america, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuits brought by scientific-atlanta and imra america that we are presently defending, could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon intellectual property of others, which may be costly or impractical. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation and result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. while we own a small number of patents, we have not historically emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage, and we do not expect these patents alone to prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. rather, we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been 18 table of contents effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. in particular, we use complex tools in the production of our semiconductor diodes that may be taken out of production for months to be serviced and the tools must be recertified before they are put back into production. if we are unable to successfully recommission these tools in a timely fashion, our results of operations and business may be adversely affected. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. also, we purchase certain raw materials used in the manufacture of our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, modulators and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. 19 table of contents we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, and our managing director of ipg laser, dr. eugene shcherbakov, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have several years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems in asia, one of our largest markets. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. the laser and amplifier industries may experience declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, have in the past and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices (asps) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. our top five customers accounted for 29% of our consolidated net sales in 2006 and 37% of our consolidated net sales in each of 2005 and 2004. our largest customer accounted for 10% of sales in 2006, 13% of sales in 2005 and 20% of sales in 2004. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short- term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our 20 table of contents principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. our manufacturing capacity may not be at the appropriate size for future levels of demand. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers over the last three years, we started adding substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia beginning in early 2005, and we are continuing to expand our capacity further. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode 21 table of contents packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity, which could in turn adversely affect our business. conversely, if demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers increases substantially more than we anticipate, our manufacturing capacity may not be adequate to meet the increased customer demand. as a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. moreover, our efforts to increase our production capacity may not succeed in enabling us to manufacture the required quantities of our products in a timely manner or at gross profit margins that we have achieved in the past. as a result, the profit margins we ultimately achieve on sales of fiber lasers and amplifiers may be lower than our historical profit margins. future downturns in the economy, particularly in the materials processing and communications markets, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing and communications markets. approximately 82% of our revenues during 2006 were in these two markets. although these industries are broad, they are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers in these industries during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales or sales growth rate. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems our future growth will depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users, and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $1.0 million and $1.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately 22 table of contents forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2 and yag lasers, as these makers of traditional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. further, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers. we also expect competition from established laser makers which may have started or may start programs to develop and sell fiber lasers or alternative new solid state laser technologies. because many of the components required to develop and produce low-power fiber lasers and amplifiers are commercially available, barriers to entry into these submarkets are relatively low, and we expect new competitive product entries in these submarkets. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors and the market may not consider our products to be superior to competing products. to maintain our competitive position in these markets, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. our products are currently marketed and sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan and russia are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; changes in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; 23 table of contents different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our indirect subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which conducts research and development and provides components and test equipment to us. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory, and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2006, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. we currently do not hedge against foreign currency exchange risks, and therefore the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of 24 table of contents market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, technologies and geographic areas, or we may acquire operations that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of the acquired business or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, labeling, and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business is the export of our products to other countries. because our products can be used or adapted for military, weapons or other similar uses, our products are subject to the export administration regulations, administered by the department of commerce and the bureau of industry security, and their foreign counterpart laws and regulations which require that we obtain an export license before we can export certain products, components or technology to specified countries. under applicable regulations, some of our laser products, components and technology are treated differently than traditional 25 table of contents lasers or mechanical tools and, in some cases, the export of our products, components and technology to certain countries requires an export license even though an export license would not be required for the export of a co 2 or yag laser or mechanical tool. unless a license exception is available, the stricter controls applicable to some products could put us at a competitive disadvantage in selling our products to customers in certain countries that require an export license, restrict our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries, or give rise to delays or expenses in obtaining appropriate licenses. export licenses can permit the export of a unit to a single customer, or multiple units over a period of time to one or more customers, and may include conditions limiting the use of the product, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly or transfer of data. we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses as we respond to questions from licensing authorities on license requests and await their determination to grant permission in instances where a license is required. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses also may require us to defer shipments to subsequent periods or cancel orders. any of these could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility, which could divert management attention and adversely affect our operating results. the stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, have experienced volatility from time to time that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. a certain degree of stock price volatility can be attributed to being a newly public company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. in several recent situations where the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of such lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of management and harm our business. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, controls more than 46.6% of our voting power, and has a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director and majority owner, beneficially own an aggregate of 19,999,243 shares of our common stock, or approximately 46.6% of our common stock. in addition, dr. denis gapontsev, our vice president of research and development and the son of dr. valentin p. gapontsev, beneficially owns 1,718,902 shares of our common stock, or approximately 4.0% of our common stock, and collectively with dr. valentin p. gapontsev, approximately 50.6% of our common stock. as a result, dr. valentin p. gapontsev has significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. valentin p. gapontsev may vote his shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. dr. valentin p. gapontsev significant ownership interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 26 table of contents dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, owns a material portion of one of our operating subsidiaries, which creates the possibility of a conflict of interest. although we own 51.0% of nto ire-polus, our russian subsidiary, dr. valentin p. gapontsev owns 26.7%, and the remaining 22.3% is owned by unaffiliated third parties and certain current and former employees of nto ire-polus. nto ire-polus conducts research and development for us and provides us with components and test equipment. dr. gapontsev significant ownership interest in this entity creates the possibility of a conflict of interest since, by having an ownership interest in both our company and nto ire-polus, his economic interests may be affected by transactions between the two entities. under russian law and nto ire-polus charter, supermajority or unanimous stockholder approval is required to take certain significant non-operational actions, such as amending nto ire-polus charter, electing the executive body or altering certain fundamental stockholder rights. although we have taken steps to address possible conflicts of interests and potential issues concerning the requirement to obtain supermajority approval, these steps may not prove effective. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of march 23, 2007, we had 42,916,532 shares of common stock outstanding and 4,392,206 shares subject to outstanding options and restricted stock units. our directors, executive officers and other stockholders holding in the aggregate approximately 79% of our outstanding shares as of march 23, 2007, have agreed not to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of common stock for a period of at least 180 days after december 12, 2006, the date of the final prospectus relating to the ipo. the lock up agreements may be terminated by merrill lynch co. and lehman brothers inc., or in some cases by us. when the lock-up agreements expire or are terminated, approximately 32,484,946 shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale under rule 144, rule 144(k) or rule 701. 27 table of contents the holders of an aggregate of approximately 5,181,184 shares of common stock have registration rights, including the right to require us to register the sale of their shares and the right to include their shares in public offerings we undertake in the future. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans. consequently, they may be freely sold in the public market, subject to the lock-up restrictions described above, and subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. we also have incurred and will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq global market. the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. we expect these rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and we may be required to hire additional personnel. we also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. we will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, beginning as early as the time of the filing of our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. such a report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. this assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management assessment of such internal controls. we have begun the systems and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with section 404. if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management report is fairly stated or is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is currently fixed except for our u.s. demand line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 82% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2006. all of our u.s. and german term debt was repaid in the first quarter of 2007 except for the $20 million of subordinated notes issued to our series b stockholders upon completion of our ipo. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro and the japanese yen. charges related to losses on foreign exchange transactions are reported as a component of general and administrative expense and totaled $0.8 million, $0.1 million and $0.3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. historically, we have not utilized any derivative instruments or other measures to protect us against foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. however, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 16 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. our future growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our future growth will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where traditional lasers, such as co 2 and yttrium aluminum garnet (yag) lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 16 table of contents and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; extend our product line to address new applications for our products; continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position; and effectively service and support our installed product base. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, prospects for our growth and profitability may be negatively impacted. the fiber laser market is relatively new when compared to the conventional laser market and our future success depends on the development and broader market acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to traditional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology, and of our fiber lasers in particular, does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and we may need to incur significant costs to address the operational requirements related to our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. we have been experiencing a period of significant growth and expansion, both in the united states and internationally, which has required, and will continue to require, increased efforts of our management and other resources. our recent and anticipated growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant strain on our research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. to manage our growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, expand, train and manage our employees and manage our working capital requirements. for example, we must implement new modules of our management information system, hire and train new sales representatives, service and application personnel, and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. this may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. if we fail to adequately manage our expected growth, or to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively motivate or manage our new and future employees, the quality of our products and the management of our operations could suffer and our operating results could be adversely affected. 17 table of contents our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 76% of our over 1,300 employees as of december 31, 2007 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we cannot adjust these fixed costs quickly to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is greatly impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if we expand capacity and production levels too quickly in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory and changes in our level of inventory to lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. we may be required to write-down inventory costs in the future as we have done in the past, and the high inventory costs may have an adverse effect on our gross profits and our operating results. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. our capacity expansion plans for manufacturing and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we started adding substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia beginning in early 2005, and we are continuing to expand our capacity further. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special- purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins. if demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers increases substantially more than we anticipate, our manufacturing capacity may not be adequate to meet the increased customer demand. as a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. moreover, our efforts to increase our production capacity may not succeed in enabling us to manufacture the required quantities of our products in a timely manner or at gross profit margins that we have achieved in the past. as a result, the profit margins we ultimately achieve on sales of fiber lasers and amplifiers may be lower than our historical profit margins. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated increased demand for our products, we intend to invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world. we currently anticipate expanding our manufacturing facilities in the united states, germany and russia in the next twelve months and to expand the number and scope of our applications centers, which complement our sales activities. we incurred in the past and will 18 table of contents incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of these new facilities. in total, we had $34 million in capital expenditures in 2007 and we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $33 million in 2008 in connection with planned expansion. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. any delay in the completion of these projects could also cause us to have insufficient capacity to meet customer demand or could require us to procure materials or components from third-party suppliers, either of which could adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users, and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $2.5 million, $1.0 million and $1.9 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us. we are presently defending two patent infringement lawsuits. in november 2006, imra america, inc. filed an action against us alleging that certain products we produce, including but not limited to our continuous wave and pulsed fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, which account for a significant portion of our revenues, infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america alleges willful infringement, and seeks damages of at least $10 million, treble damages and injunctive relief. imra america also alleges inducement of infringement and contributory infringement. this lawsuit concerns products made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states and therefore the lawsuit affects products that account for a substantial portion of our revenues. this lawsuit does not affect revenues that are derived from products that are not made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states. the case 19 table of contents is in the discovery stage and trial has been set for august 5, 2008. we petitioned the u.s. patent and trademark office (the us pto ) to re-examine the patent based on several prior art references. the us pto is considering our re-examination request. should the us pto initiate re-examination, several outcomes are possible, including the cancellation of one or more of the current claims of the patent, confirmation of one or more of the current claims of the patent, amendment of one or more of the current claims of the patent, and/or addition of one or more new claims that do not enlarge the overall scope of the patent claims. an adverse outcome in the us pto re-examination could have an adverse impact on our defenses in our litigation with imra america. in february 2008, cardiofocus inc. filed an action against us alleging that our erbium and thulium fiber lasers infringe one patent allegedly owned by cardiofocus and seeks unspecified damages, treble damages and attorneys fees for alleged willful infringement. the plaintiff also alleges inducement of infringement. the patent claims generally relate to a system for transmitting laser energy via an optical fiber to a surgical site. the patent expired in april 2007. we intend to file an answer to the complaint raising several defenses. although we intend to vigorously contest the claims against us, we cannot predict the outcome of the proceeding. imra america and other parties have notified us that they believe certain of our fiber lasers and amplifiers, or the use of these products, infringe the respective parties patents. there can be no assurance that we will be able to amicably dispose of our pending litigation with imra america or cardiofocus, claims or other allegations made against us and claims that may be asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation, including the pending litigation, is uncertain, as is the outcome of our request for re-examination of the imra america patent. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants against us may have greater financial resources and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardio focus, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardiofocus that we are presently defending, could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon intellectual property of others, which may be costly or impractical. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. 20 table of contents our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. while we recently acquired a patent portfolio, our patents do not cover all of our technologies, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. future downturns in the global economy, particularly in the materials processing and communications markets, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing and communications markets. approximately 82% of our revenues in 2007 were in these two markets. although these industries are broad, they are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers in these industries during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales or sales growth rate. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant 21 table of contents production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. in particular, we use complex tools in the production of our semiconductor diodes that may be taken out of production for months to be serviced and the tools must be recertified before they are put back into production. if we are unable to successfully recommission these tools in a timely fashion, our results of operations and business may be adversely affected. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, modulators and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh, dr. eugene shcherbakov, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an 22 table of contents ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems in asia, one of our largest markets. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. the laser and amplifier industries may experience declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, have in the past and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices (asps) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. our top five customers accounted for 20%, 29% and 37% of our consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. our largest customer accounted for 7%, 10% and 13% of sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; 23 table of contents competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory write-downs; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our future growth will depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2 and yag lasers, as these makers of traditional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. 24 table of contents in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers. we also expect competition from established laser makers which may have started or may start programs to develop and sell fiber lasers or solid state laser technology alternatives to fiber lasers. several established laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies inc., trumpf inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd. and others, have recently introduced fiber lasers, or have announced plans to develop fiber-based lasers, that would compete with our products. because many of the components required to develop and produce low-power fiber lasers and amplifiers are commercially available, barriers to entry are relatively low, and we expect new competitive products to be introduced. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. our products are currently marketed and sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia and china are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us 25 table of contents with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our indirect subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2007, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. we have entered into a foreign currency forward contract to offset our exposure to currency transaction risks primarily related to intercompany loans, receivables and payables, but we do not currently hedge against other foreign currency exchange risks. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents, technologies and geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies 26 table of contents that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of the acquired business, product, patents or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses also may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. 27 table of contents our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. we may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, controls approximately 45% of our voting power and has a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director and majority owner, beneficially own approximately 45% of our common stock. in addition, dr. denis gapontsev, our vice president of research and development and the son of dr. valentin p. gapontsev, beneficially owns approximately 4% of our common stock, and collectively with dr. valentin p. gapontsev, approximately 49% of our common stock. as a result, dr. valentin p. gapontsev has a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. valentin p. gapontsev may vote his shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. dr. valentin p. gapontsev significant ownership interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, owns a material portion of one of our operating subsidiaries, which creates the possibility of a conflict of interest. although we own 58.6% of nto ire-polus, our russian subsidiary, dr. valentin p. gapontsev owns 26.7%, igor samartsev, one of our directors, owns 4.9%, and unaffiliated third parties and certain current and former employees of nto ire-polus own the remaining 9.8%. nto ire-polus provides us with components and test equipment and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. transactions between us and nto ire-polus generated approximately $15.8 million and $12.3 million of revenues for nto ire-polus for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. dr. gapontsev significant ownership interest in this entity creates the possibility of a conflict of interest since, by having an ownership interest in both our company and nto ire-polus, his economic interests may be affected by transactions between the two entities. under russian law and nto ire-polus charter, supermajority or unanimous stockholder approval is required to take certain significant non-operational actions, such as amending nto ire-polus charter, electing the executive body or altering certain fundamental stockholder rights. although we have taken steps to address possible conflicts of interests and potential issues concerning the requirement to obtain supermajority approval, these steps may not prove effective. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these 28 table of contents provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2007, we had 44,012,341 shares of common stock outstanding and 3,531,980 shares subject to outstanding options. all of our unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144, rule 144(k) or rule 701. also, the holders of an aggregate of approximately 2,240,000 shares of common stock have registration rights, including the right to require us to register the sale of their shares and the right to include their shares in public offerings that we undertake in the future. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market, subject to the lock-up restrictions described above, and subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. we also have incurred and will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq global market. the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. these rules and regulations have significantly increased, and are expected to continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. these rules and regulations have also made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. 29 table of contents we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. such a report is required to contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. this assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and attest that management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is fairly stated. if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or attest that our management report is fairly stated, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. we do not anticipate paying dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. we anticipate that we will retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the growth and development of our business. our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account general economic and business conditions, any contractual and legal restrictions on our payment of dividends, and our financial condition, operating results, cash needs and growth plans. in addition, current agreements with certain of our lenders contain, and future loan agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that generally prohibit us from paying cash dividends, making any distribution on any class of stock or making stock repurchases. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is currently fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 78% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2007. all of our u.s. and german term debt was repaid in the first quarter of 2007 except for the $20 million of subordinated notes issued to our series b stockholders upon completion of our ipo. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro and the japanese yen. gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions are reported as a component of general and administrative expense and totaled a $1.2 million gain, and a $0.8 million loss and a $0.1 million loss for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. changes in exchange rates can also affect our financial results. if exchange rates in the year ended december 31, 2007 had been the same as in the previous year, we estimate that our sales would have been lower by approximately $7.2 million. additionally, we estimate that cost of sales and operating expenses would have been lower by approximately $5.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2007. during the third quarter of 2007, we entered into a foreign currency forward contract, not designated as a hedging instrument under sfas no. 133, to offset certain exposures from inter-company loans, receivables and payables. in the fourth quarter of 2007, a loss of $0.4 million was realized on this foreign currency forward contract when it was settled. no derivative instruments were outstanding at december 31, 2007. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions, however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in additional financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes automotive, marking, electronics and photovoltaic applications. approximately 81.9% of our revenues in 2008 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales or sales growth rate. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically-integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales are dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our some of our customers. the recent economic downturn has resulted in tighter credit markets, which could adversely affect our customers ability to secure the financing necessary to proceed with or continue orders for our products. our customers or potential customers inability to secure financing for orders could result in the delay, cancellation or downsizing of new orders or the suspension of orders already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our products and negatively impact our revenues and earnings. our sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yttrium aluminum garnet (yag) lasers, have been used or in new and 17 table of contents developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; extend our product line to address new applications for our products; continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position; and effectively service and support our installed product base. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology, and of our fiber lasers in particular, does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 74% of our 1,420 employees as of december 31, 2008 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory and changes in our level of inventory to lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from 18 table of contents our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. we may be required to write-down inventory costs in the future as we have done in the past, and the high inventory costs may have an adverse effect on our gross profits and our operating results. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we started adding substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia beginning in 2005. we continue to expand our capacity further in russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invested significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $37 million and $34 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2009. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users, and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $3.8 million, $2.5 million and $1.0 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of 19 table of contents new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us. we are presently defending two patent infringement lawsuits. in november 2006, imra america, inc. filed an action against us alleging that certain products we produce, including but not limited to our continuous wave and pulsed fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, which account for a significant portion of our revenues, infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america alleges willful infringement and seeks damages of at least $10 million, treble damages and injunctive relief. imra america also alleges inducement of infringement and contributory infringement. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and raised additional defenses that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. in addition, we filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on these three defenses. this lawsuit concerns products made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states and therefore the lawsuit affects products that account for a substantial portion of our revenues. this lawsuit does not affect revenues that are derived from products that are not made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states. in june 2008, the u.s. patent and trademark office ( uspto ) ordered re-examination of the patent claims asserted by imra america, inc. against the company based on several prior art references that we submitted in an ex parte re-examination request. the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan had previously stayed the litigation until the conclusion of the re-examination. in february 2008, cardiofocus inc. filed an action against us alleging that our erbium and thulium fiber lasers infringe one patent allegedly owned by cardiofocus and seeks unspecified damages, treble damages and attorneys fees for alleged willful infringement. the plaintiff also alleges inducement of infringement. the patent claims generally relate to a system for transmitting laser energy via an optical fiber to a surgical site. the patent expired in april 2007. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and raised additional defenses that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. in addition, we filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on these three defenses. also, the plaintiff in this litigation recently alleged that the company infringes claims of two additional patents and we are investigating a response to such allegations. the uspto granted the reexamination requests submitted by us and other defendants. in two office actions in november 2008, the uspto rejected all of the claims for the cardiofocus patents alleged to be infringed. in february 2009, cardiofocus responded to the uspto office actions. the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts has stayed the litigation until the earlier of october 2009 or the conclusion of the re-examination. the court indicated that it will consider extending the stay for an additional year if the re-examinations are not completed in one year. discovery has not yet commenced. several outcomes are possible from the re-examinations, including the cancellation or confirmation of one or more of the current claims of the patents. furthermore, with regard to any unexpired patents in re-examination, the current claims can be amended, and new claims can be added, provided that such amendments and additions do not enlarge the overall scope of the claims. an adverse outcome in a uspto re-examination could have an adverse impact on our defenses in our litigation with imra america and/or cardiofocus. 20 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to amicably dispose of our pending litigation with imra america or cardiofocus, claims or other allegations made against us and claims that may be asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation, including the pending litigation, is uncertain, as is the outcome of our request for re-examination of the imra america patent. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardiofocus, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us, including the lawsuits brought by imra america and cardiofocus that we are presently defending, could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon intellectual property of others, which may be costly or impractical. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. although we acquired a patent portfolio in 2008 and started a program in 2007 to increase the number of patent applications we file, our patents do not cover all of our technologies, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us 21 table of contents to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. 22 table of contents we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh, dr. eugene shcherbakov, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems in asia, one of our largest markets. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices (asps) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. our top five customers accounted for 17%, 20% and 29%. of our consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. our largest customer 23 table of contents accounted for 7%, 7% and 10% of sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory write-downs; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. 24 table of contents foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2008, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2 and yag lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, mpb communications inc. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and several have announced plans to introduce high-power fiber lasers that would compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. many of the laser companies that we compete with are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. 25 table of contents we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. our products are currently marketed and sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia and china are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying 26 table of contents interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents, technologies and geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in 27 table of contents the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses also may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. our ability to access financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the u.s. and germany expire in july 2011 and june 2010, respectively. market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. we may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our 28 table of contents profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman, chief executive officer and principal stockholder, controls approximately 45% of our voting power and has a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director and majority owner, beneficially own approximately 45% of our common stock. in addition, dr. denis gapontsev, our vice president of research and development and the son of dr. valentin p. gapontsev, beneficially owns approximately 3% of our common stock, and collectively with dr. valentin p. gapontsev, approximately 47% of our common stock. as a result, dr. valentin p. gapontsev has a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. valentin p. gapontsev may vote his shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. dr. valentin p. gapontsev significant ownership interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. 29 table of contents substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2008, we had 44,965,960 shares of common stock outstanding and 3,050,301 shares subject to outstanding options. all of our unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144, rule 144(k) or rule 701. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market, subject to the lock-up restrictions described above, and subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. we also have incurred and will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq global market. the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. these rules and regulations have significantly increased, and are expected to continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. these rules and regulations have also made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is currently fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 49% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2008. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market 50 table of contents risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions are reported as a component of general and administrative expense and totaled a $2.8 million gain, and a $1.2 million loss and a $0.8 million loss for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. changes in exchange rates can also affect our financial results. if exchange rates in the year ended december 31, 2008 had been the same as in the previous year, we estimate that our sales would have been lower by approximately $6.8 million. additionally, we estimate that cost of sales and operating expenses would have been lower by approximately $5.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions, however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 16 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. 16 table of contents downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 94% of our revenues in 2013 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. our sales have benefited in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 from our increased sales of mid and high-power lasers to end users in china. a slowing of economic growth, or a recession in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. 17 table of contents if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 79% of our approximately 2,800 employees as of december 31, 2013 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $70.9 million and $68.2 million in 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $70 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2014 . in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more 18 table of contents extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., maxphotonics co., ltd. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and some have introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. in addition, there are no assurances that our investments in research and development, application development and customer service and support will be successful. we also compete against our oem customers' internal production of competitive laser and amplifier technologies. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices ( asps ) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; 19 table of contents the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end-market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $15.1 million , $8.2 million and $6.1 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 75, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser 20 table of contents gmbh and senior vice-president, europe, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 66, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us and in 2010 we settled another patent infringement lawsuit filed against us. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to two patents allegedly owned by imra america related to the patent imra america asserted against us in the united states. in japan, the patent office invalidated two claims, and subsequently the japanese ip high court concluded that the remaining 49 claims of an imra america patent were invalid. imra is appealing the ip high court decision. the german patent and trademark office concluded that imra's claims corresponding to its original patent request and several auxiliary requests were not patentable and found that claims relating to imra's final auxiliary request were patentable. we are appealing a portion of this decision favorable to imra. we were named a defendant in an action by a former consultant filed in august 2013 in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. the plaintiff alleges in his complaint that we misappropriated certain trade secrets from him relating to beam couplers and beam switches in connection with a consulting relationship, that we engaged in unfair trade practices and that he should be identified as an inventor on a patent owned by us. he seeks damages in an unspecified amount, double damages for misappropriation of trade secrets, treble damages for unfair trade practices and correction of inventorship on one patent. we have not answered the complaint. although we intend to vigorously contest the claims against us, we cannot predict the outcome of the proceeding. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and 21 table of contents attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms 22 table of contents and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 21% , 16% and 17% of our consolidated net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 11% , 7% and 8% of sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia, china, italy and korea are our principal markets. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers, and we have substantial tangible assets, outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account 23 table of contents for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; and export and import restrictions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. further, almost 30% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 24 table of contents foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2013 , our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as nasdaq and the nyse, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations and other laws such as anti-bribery laws. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements 25 table of contents may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. difficulties with our information technology systems could harm our business and results of operation. if our network security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our technology or data or customer data, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any security breach could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required 26 table of contents export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in june 2015 and june 2014, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 51,930,978 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,699,897 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. 27 table of contents dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 34% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 34% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government securities. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term 44 table of contents nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed by means of interest rate swap agreements. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. loss on foreign exchange transactions totaled $2.5 million and $1.4 million in 2013 and 2012 , respectively. management attempts to hedge these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency hedges as of december 31, 2013 . we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 16 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 95% of our revenues in 2014 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 32% , 30% and 25% in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. a slowing of economic growth, or a recession in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultra-fast fiber lasers, that extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. 17 table of contents if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 77% of our approximately 3,030 employees as of december 31, 2014 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $88.6 million and $70.9 million in 2014 and 2013 , respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $60 million to $65 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2015 . in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products, some offered by well-established companies. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of lasersolutions may lower prices to maintain or gain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., 18 table of contents ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., amada co., ltd., raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., maxphotonics co., ltd. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and some have introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. in addition, there are no assurances that our investments in research and development, application development and customer service and support will be successful. we also compete against our oem customers' internal production of competitive laser and amplifier technologies. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 23% , 21% and 16% of our consolidated net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 11% , 11% and 7% of sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2014 , our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales, expenses and cash denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, switzerland, italy, japan, korea and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers, and we have substantial tangible assets, outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; 19 table of contents political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished pulsed lasers to china. further, over 30% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. recent events in ukraine have resulted in the united states and the european union imposing and escalating sanctions on russia and certain businesses, sectors and individuals in russia. the united states and the european union also suspended the granting of certain types of export licenses to russia. russia has imposed its own sanctions on certain individuals in the u.s. and may be considering other sanctions on the u.s. and the european union or certain businesses or individuals from them. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. to date, we have not experienced any material disruptions or impact from current sanctions. should there be disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement different sanctions, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be 20 table of contents adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; economic and market conditions in a particular geography or country; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to 21 table of contents increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $11.3 million , $15.1 million and $8.2 million in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 76, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh and senior vice-president, europe, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 67, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, "directors, executive officers and corporate governance" below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us and in 2010 we settled another patent infringement lawsuit filed against us. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement 22 table of contents lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to two patents allegedly owned by imra america related to the patent imra america asserted against us in the united states. we were named a defendant in an action by a former consultant filed in august 2013 in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. the plaintiff alleged in his complaint that we misappropriated certain trade secrets from him, and that we engaged in unfair trade practices. the plaintiff filed in the united states district court of the district of massachusetts, a voluntarily dismissal of the lawsuit in august 2014. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. 23 table of contents given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. 24 table of contents we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production 25 table of contents of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as nasdaq and the nyse, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations and other laws such as anti-bribery laws. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. difficulties with our information technology systems could harm our business and results of operation. if our network security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our technology or data or customer data, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any security breach could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. 26 table of contents we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.- origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in june 2015 and july 2017, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short- 27 table of contents term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2014 , we had 52,369,688 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,691,876 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 33% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 33% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; 28 table of contents limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government securities. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed by means of interest rate swap agreements. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. gain on foreign exchange transactions totaled $6.6 million in 2014 and loss on foreign exchange transactions totaled $2.5 million in 2013 . management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2014 . we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 94% of our revenues in 2015 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough or sufficiently, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development and infrastructure for long term growth. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 35% , 32% and 30% in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. a slowing of economic growth or recession, other adverse economic developments or uncertainty in any of our key markets, including in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. an economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. we have made significant sales into the cutting, welding and marking and engraving applications, three large applications where conventional lasers are used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultra-fast fiber lasers, that extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; 17 table of contents effectively meet growing competition and pricing pressures; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 78% of our approximately 3,740 employees as of december 31, 2015 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough or sufficiently to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $70.1 million and $88.6 million in 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $100 million to $110 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2016 . in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products, some offered by well-established companies. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of laser solutions may lower prices to maintain or gain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. 18 table of contents in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., newport corporation, fanuc corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., amada co., ltd., raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., maxphotonics co., ltd., nlight corporation and lumentum holdings inc. several competitors and customers recently introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to produce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. in addition, there are no assurances that our investments in research and development, application development and customer service and support will be successful. we also compete against our oem customers' internal production of competitive laser and amplifier technologies. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 25% , 23% and 21% of our consolidated net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 13% , 11% and 11% of sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. this customer announced that is it making pulsed fiber lasers and plans to develop high-power fiber lasers and related components. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2015 , our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales, expenses and cash denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, turkey, switzerland, italy, japan, korea and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in addition we have substantial tangible assets outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; 19 table of contents potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political, economic and monetary instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished lasers to china. further, over 34% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. recent events in ukraine have resulted in the united states and the european union imposing and escalating sanctions on russia and certain businesses, sectors and individuals in russia. the united states and the european union also suspended the granting of certain types of export licenses to russia. russia has imposed its own sanctions on certain individuals in the u.s. and may be considering other sanctions on the u.s. and the european union or certain businesses or individuals from them. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. should there be any disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement different sanctions, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. for example, various trade sanctions against iran and syria require u.s. government authorization for sales there. we may be subject to legal liability, enhanced disclosure requirements and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on such countries. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 20 table of contents the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price and may be difficult to predict. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures and new market entrants; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; economic and market conditions in a particular geography or country; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months or more. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. 21 table of contents because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $15.4 million , $11.3 million and $15.1 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products, or retain key employees. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 77, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh and senior vice president, europe, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 68, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, "directors, executive officers and corporate governance" below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be 22 table of contents pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we were named a defendant in an action filed november 2015 in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas for patent infringement relating to an apparatus for coupling radiation beams into optical waveguides. the complaint seeks unspecified damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to several patents allegedly owned by imra america which are part of the same patent family for which imra america asserted one patent against us in the united states. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time- 23 table of contents consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. if we do not develop new fiber laser applications or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development of new applications using fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools in many applications, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss the design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes 24 table of contents before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to develop and qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. we have expended resources to diminish or remove limitations inherent in fiber laser technology and design to allow us develop new products to compete in new applications. if we cannot develop new applications for our fiber lasers or improve upon our current fiber lasers, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. in addition, some of our oem customers are developing their own fiber laser sources. if they are successful, this may reduce our sales to these customers. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. failure to effectively maintain and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. it is important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to maintain and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement and manage our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our 25 table of contents customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as nasdaq and the nyse, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations and other laws such as anti-bribery laws. these laws and regulations include the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (the iran threat reduction act ), which, among other obligations, requires sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. in the event the company were to engage in certain activities that are subject to these disclosure requirements, we would be required to separately file, concurrently with any iran threat reduction act disclosure, a notice that such activities have been disclosed in our quarterly or annual report filings, which notice must also contain the information required by the exchange act. disclosure of such activities, even if they are not subject to sanctions under applicable law, and any sanction actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our results of operations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have experienced rapid growth and have extensive and complex international manufacturing and sales and service locations which may make us more vulnerable to weaknesses in our internal controls. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. difficulties with our information technology systems could harm our business and results of operation. if our network security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our technology or data or customer data, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion 26 table of contents of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 under the updated framework issued in 2013. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers, employees and service providers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, employees and service providers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any security breach could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in a misappropriation of our assets (including intellectual property and other proprietary assets), lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. 27 table of contents we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, prevailing interest rates, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in april 2020 and july 2017, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2015 , we had 52,883,902 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,529,121 shares subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 32% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd., of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 32% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; 28 table of contents amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, corporate notes and government and agency securities. none of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the russian ruble, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. gain on foreign exchange transactions totaled $2.6 million in 2015 and $6.6 million in 2014 . management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. the effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. as a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. furthermore, if we expect a currency movement to be beneficial to us in the short or medium term, we have, on occasions, chosen not to hedge or otherwise off-set the underlying assets or liabilities. however, it is difficult to predict foreign currency movements accurately. at december 31, 2015 , our material foreign currency exposure is net u.s. dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the euro or the russian ruble is the functional currency and u.s. dollar denominated liabilities where the chinese yuan is the functional currency. the net u.s. dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables, inter-company receivables and inter-company notes offset by third party and inter-company u.s. dollar denominated payables. the u.s. dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the euro as of december 31, 2015 applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances, would result in a foreign exchange gain of $4.0 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $4.0 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. in addition we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. as discussed in our results of operations, this can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. in addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss. 48 table of contents foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2015 . we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 93% of our revenues in 2016 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough or sufficiently, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development and infrastructure for long term growth. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 36% , 35% and 32% in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. a slowing of economic growth or recession, other adverse economic developments or uncertainty in any of our key markets, including in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. an economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products, some offered by well-established companies. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of laser solutions may lower prices to maintain or gain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including trumpf gmbh + co. kg, coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., fanuc corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., maxphotonics co., ltd., nlight corporation and lumentum holdings inc. several competitors and customers recently introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to produce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development, manufacturing facilities and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. in addition, there are no assurances that our investments in research and development, application development and customer service and support will be successful. we also compete against our oem customers' internal production of competitive laser and amplifier technologies. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a significant decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications and end markets for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. we have made significant sales into the cutting, welding and marking and engraving applications, three large applications where conventional lasers are used. as fiber lasers reach higher levels of penetration in core materials processing applications, the development of new applications, end markets and products outside our core applications becomes more important to our growth. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications for materials processing, medical, communications or other applications such as cinema and projection; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultra-fast fiber lasers, that extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; effectively meet growing competition and pricing pressures; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. 18 table of contents potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies. they may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss the design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications and end markets for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 78% of our approximately 4,230 employees as of december 31, 2016 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough or sufficiently to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $127.0 million and $70.1 million in 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $90 million to $100 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2017 . in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 22% , 25% and 23% of our consolidated net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 9% , 13% and 11% of sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. a few of our larger customers are making fi 19 table of contents ber lasers or announced plans to develop fiber lasers. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2016 , our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates or holds assets or liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to u.s. dollars. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, turkey, switzerland, italy, japan, korea and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in addition we have substantial tangible assets outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political, economic and monetary instability and changes in governmental regulations or policies, including trade tariffs and protectionism, could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required 20 table of contents components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished lasers to china. further, approximately 36% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. events over the past few years in ukraine and crimea have resulted in the united states and the european union imposing and escalating sanctions on russia and certain businesses, sectors and individuals in russia. the united states and the european union also suspended the granting of certain types of export licenses to russia. russia has imposed its own sanctions on certain individuals in the u.s. and may be considering other sanctions on the u.s. and the european union or certain businesses or individuals from them. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. should there be any disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement different sanctions, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. for example, various trade sanctions against iran and syria require u.s. government authorization for sales there. we may be subject to legal liability, enhanced disclosure requirements and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of u.s. trade sanctions on such countries. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price and may be difficult to predict. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures and new market entrants; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; 21 table of contents our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; the incurrence of expenses related to impairment of values for goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; economic and market conditions in a particular geography or country; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months or more. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $22.8 million , $15.4 million and $11.3 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products, or retain key employees. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. 22 table of contents we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 78, and the chief operating officer, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 69, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, "directors, executive officers and corporate governance" below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we were named a defendant in an action filed november 2015 in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas for patent infringement relating to an apparatus for coupling radiation beams into optical waveguides. the complaint seeks unspecified damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to several patents allegedly owned by imra america which are part of the same patent family for which imra america asserted one patent against us in the united states. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. 23 table of contents in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand 24 table of contents from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. in addition, some of our oem customers are developing their own fiber laser sources. if they are successful, this may reduce our sales to these customers. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. failure to effectively maintain and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. it is important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to maintain and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement and manage our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to 25 table of contents incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have experienced rapid growth and have extensive and complex international manufacturing and sales and service locations which may make us more vulnerable to weaknesses in our internal controls. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. difficulties with our information technology systems could harm our business and results of operation. if our network security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our technology or data or customer data, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 under the updated framework issued in 2013. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers, employees and service providers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, employees and service providers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any security breach could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in a misappropriation of our assets (including intellectual property and other proprietary assets), lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. 26 table of contents we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. at december 31, 2016 , 48% of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were in the united states and 52% were outside the united states. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, prevailing interest rates, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in april 2020 and july 2017, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability 27 table of contents to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2016 , we had 53,251,805 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,485,528 shares subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 32% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd., of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 32% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of the company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board; 28 table of contents providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with the company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to the company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, corporate notes and government and agency securities. none of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the russian ruble, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. in 2016 we incurred a loss on foreign exchange transactions of $4.5 million as compared to a gain of $2.6 million in 2015 . management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. the effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. as a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. furthermore, if we expect a currency movement to be beneficial to us in the short or medium term, we have, on occasions, chosen not to hedge or otherwise off-set the underlying assets or liabilities. however, it is difficult to predict foreign currency movements accurately. at december 31, 2016 , our material foreign currency exposure is net u.s. dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the euro or the russian ruble is the functional currency and u.s. dollar denominated liabilities where the chinese yuan is the functional currency. the net u.s. dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables, inter-company receivables and inter-company notes offset by third party and inter-company u.s. dollar denominated payables. the u.s. dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the euro applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances as of december 31, 2016 , would result in a foreign exchange gain of $3.3 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $3.3 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. in addition we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. as discussed in our results of operations, this can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. in addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss. foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2016 . we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 94% of our revenues in 2017 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough or sufficiently, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development and infrastructure for long term growth. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the 17 table of contents prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 44% , 36% and 35% in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. a slowing of economic growth or recession, other adverse economic developments or uncertainty in any of our key markets, including in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. an economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with other laser technologies and amplifier products, some offered by well-established companies. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of laser solutions may lower prices to maintain or gain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including coherent inc., fanuc corporation, keopsys sa, lumentum holdings inc., maxphotonics co., ltd., nlight corporation, raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., shenzen jpt opto-electronics co., ltd., the furukawa electric co., ltd. and trumpf gmbh + co. kg. in addition, some customers recently introduced fiber lasers and most competitors are increasing the output powers of their fiber lasers to compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development, manufacturing facilities and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. in addition, there are no assurances that our investments in research and development, application development and customer service and support will be successful. we also compete against our oem customers' internal production of competitive laser and amplifier technologies. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a significant decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications and end markets for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. we have made significant sales into the cutting, welding and marking and engraving applications, three large applications where other laser technologies are used. as fiber lasers reach higher levels of penetration in core materials processing applications, the development of new applications, end 18 table of contents markets and products outside our core applications becomes more important to our growth. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications for materials processing, medical, communications or other applications such as cinema and projection; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultrafast fiber lasers, that extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; effectively meet growing competition and pricing pressures; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies. they may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss the design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications and end markets for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 78% of our approximately 5,030 employees as of december 31, 2017 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough or sufficiently to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, 19 table of contents build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $126.5 million and $127.0 million in 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $170 million to $190 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2018 . in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 28% , 22% and 25% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 13% , 9% and 13% of sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. a few of our larger customers are making fiber lasers or announced plans to develop fiber lasers. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2017 , our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates or holds assets or liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to u.s. dollars. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, turkey, switzerland, italy, japan, korea and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in addition we have substantial tangible assets outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; 20 table of contents difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political, economic and monetary instability and changes in governmental regulations or policies, including trade tariffs and protectionism, could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished lasers to china. further, approximately 44% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we must comply with and could be impacted by various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations that are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. our business activities are subject to various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the u.s. commerce department's export administration regulations, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control's trade and economic sanctions programs, and the u.s. department of state's nonproliferation sanctions, which we collectively refer to as trade controls. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. should there be any disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement new or broad-based trade controls, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. although we have implemented compliance measures designed to prevent transactions prohibited by the trade controls, our failure to successfully comply with applicable trade controls may expose us to negative legal and business consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and reputational harm. in addition, trade controls and their implementation are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. such changes, including the potential expansion of sanctions and sanctions designations, as well as public statements by government officials, could be significant, require us to take certain actions to be in compliance, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, have a reputational impact, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on us, our business, and our ability to raise capital. 21 table of contents we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price and may be difficult to predict. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures and new market entrants; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; the incurrence of expenses related to impairment of values for goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; economic and market conditions in a particular geography or country; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months or more. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. 22 table of contents because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $16.9 million , $22.8 million and $15.4 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. we make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. although we have pursued acquisitions small in size in the past, we may pursue larger transactions in the future. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products, or retain key employees. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 79, and the chief operating officer, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 70, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, "directors, executive officers and corporate governance" below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be 23 table of contents pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we were named a defendant in an action filed november 2015 in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas for patent infringement relating to an apparatus for coupling radiation beams into optical waveguides. the complaint seeks unspecified damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to several patents allegedly owned by imra america which are part of the same patent family for which imra america asserted one patent against us in the united states. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time- 24 table of contents consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. in addition, some of our oem customers are developing their own fiber laser sources. if they are successful, this may reduce our sales to these customers. furthermore, if our oem 25 table of contents customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. failure to effectively maintain and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. it is important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to maintain and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement and manage our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have experienced rapid growth and have extensive and complex international manufacturing and sales and service locations which may make us more vulnerable to weaknesses in our internal controls. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls 26 table of contents over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. our information systems are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures. if unauthorized access is obtained to our information systems, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 under the updated framework issued in 2013. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers, employees and service providers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, employees and service providers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any unauthorized access could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in a misappropriation of our assets (including cash), lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. additionally, such actions could result in significant costs associated with loss of our intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, rebuilding our network and systems, prosecuting and defending litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or taking other remedial steps. we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks due to the new european general data protection regulation we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks in europe due to the new european general data protection regulation ( gdpr ). effective may 25, 2018, the gdpr imposes additional obligations and risk upon our business and increases substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. the gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of affected persons regarding their data . failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. the gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business. the company is evaluating its processes and taking measures to ensure compliance with the gdpr. due to the lack of experience with the interpretation of this new regulation and its enforcement, some measures initially might not satisfy the best practices that will be established in the coming years. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the 27 table of contents control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. at december 31, 2017 , 36% of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were in the united states and 64% were outside the united states. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, prevailing interest rates, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations, implement our operating strategy or complete acquisitions. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in april 2020 and july 2020, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. 28 table of contents substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2017 , we had 53,629,439 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,251,703 shares subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 31% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd., of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 31% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of the company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with the company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to the company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially 29 table of contents own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, corporate notes and government and agency securities. none of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 48 table of contents we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the russian ruble, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. in 2017 we incurred a loss on foreign exchange transactions of $14.5 million as compared to a loss of $4.5 million in 2016 . management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. the effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. as a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. furthermore, if we expect a currency movement to be beneficial to us in the short or medium term, we have, on occasions, chosen not to hedge or otherwise off-set the underlying assets or liabilities. however, it is difficult to predict foreign currency movements accurately. at december 31, 2017 , our material foreign currency exposure is net u.s. dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the euro or the russian ruble is the functional currency and u.s. dollar denominated liabilities where the chinese yuan is the functional currency. the net u.s. dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables, inter-company receivables and inter-company notes offset by third party and inter-company u.s. dollar denominated payables. the u.s. dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the euro applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances as of december 31, 2017 , would result in a foreign exchange gain of $0.5 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $0.5 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. in addition we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. as discussed in our results of operations, this can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. in addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss. foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2017 . we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 17 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. 17 table of co n tents in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 94% of our revenues in 2018 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough or sufficiently, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development and infrastructure for long term growth. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 43%, 44% and 36% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. a slowing of economic growth or recession, other adverse economic developments or uncertainty in any of our key markets, including in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. an economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced gross margins or the loss of market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. we compete with makers of fiber lasers, solid-state lasers, direct diode lasers, high power co 2, yag and disc lasers. these include public and private companies such as coherent, inc., laserline gmbh, lumentum holdings inc., maxphotonics co., ltd., nlight, inc., raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., and trumpf gmbh + co. kg, as well as other smaller competitors. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. our current or potential customers may determine to develop and produce products for their own use which are competitive to our products. such vertical integration could reduce the market opportunity for our products. many of our fiber laser competitors are increasing the output powers of their fiber lasers to compete with our products. we also compete in the materials processing, advanced and medical applications markets with end users that produce their own solid-state and gas lasers as well as with manufacturers of non-laser methods and tools, such as traditional non-laser welding and cutting dies in the materials processing market and scalpels in the medical market. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, 18 table of co n tents application development, manufacturing facilities and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. as a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of sales and loss of market share. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. our products are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a significant decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. our sales growth depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications and end markets for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. we have made significant sales into the cutting, welding and marking and engraving applications, three large applications where other laser technologies are used. as fiber lasers reach higher levels of penetration in core materials processing applications, the development of new applications, end markets and products outside our core applications becomes more important to our growth. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications for materials processing, medical, communications or other applications such as cinema and projection; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultrafast fiber lasers, that extend our product line to address different applications than our current products; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; effectively meet growing competition and pricing pressures; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies. they may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss the design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications and end markets for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in part or whole. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 77% of our approximately 6,220 employees as of december 31, 2018 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not 19 table of co n tents adjust these fixed costs quickly enough or sufficiently to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $160.3 million and $126.5 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $170 million to $180 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2019. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 26%, 28% and 22% of our consolidated net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 12%, 13% and 9% of sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. a few of our larger customers are making fiber lasers or announced plans to develop fiber lasers. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2018, our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates or holds assets or liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to u.s. dollars. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. 20 table of co n tents our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, turkey, switzerland, italy, japan, korea and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in addition we have substantial tangible assets outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; general econ omic uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economic communities in which we our customers operate or serve; impact of governm ent economic policies on macroeconomic conditions, including recently instituted changes in trade policies by the u.s. and any corresponding retaliatory actions by affected countries, including china; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political, economic and monetary instability and changes in governmental regulations or policies, including trade tariffs and protectionism, could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished lasers to china. further, approximately 43% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market 21 table of co n tents countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. we must comply with and could be impacted by various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations that are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. our business activities are subject to various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the u.s. commerce department's export administration regulations, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control's trade and economic sanctions programs, and the u.s. department of state's nonproliferation sanctions, which we collectively refer to as trade controls. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. should there be any disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement new or broad-based trade controls, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. although we have implemented compliance measures designed to prevent transactions prohibited by current or future trade controls, our failure to successfully comply with applicable trade controls may expose us to negative legal and business consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and reputational harm. in addition, trade controls and their implementation are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. such changes, including the potential expansion of sanctions and sanctions designations, as well as public statements by government officials, could be significant, require us to take certain actions to be in compliance, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, have a reputational impact, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on us, our business, and our ability to raise capital. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price and may be difficult to predict. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: general economic conditions and uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economies in which we or our customers operate and serve; the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; compliance with applicable import/export regulations, tariffs and trade barriers, including recently instituted or proposed changes in trade policies by the u.s. and any corresponding retaliatory actions by affected countries, in particular with respect to china ; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures and new market entrants; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; 22 table of co n tents incurr ing expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; incurr ing expenses related to impairment of values for goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending ; our ability to successfully and fully integrate acquisitions into our operation and management; expenses a ssociated with acquisition-related activities; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months or more. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $13.0 million, $16.9 million and $22.8 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. we make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. although we have pursued acquisitions small in size in the past, we may pursue larger transactions in the future. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, reduce consolidated margins, cause us to incur impairment charges and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to complete the transaction after signing definitive agreements, integrate the acquired businesses, business cultures, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products, or retain key employees. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention, require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations, incur unanticipated costs or liabilities, including the costs associated with improving the internal controls of the acquired company. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. 23 table of co n tents we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets, which would negatively affect our results of operations we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, lack of growth in our relevant business units or differences in the estimated product acceptance rates could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make significant judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance at many points during the analysis. also, the process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 79, and the chief operating officer, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 70, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. for instance, we were named a defendant in an action filed november 2015 in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas for patent infringement relating to an apparatus for coupling radiation beams into optical waveguides. this matter was settled. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we were previously engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to several related imra patents. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. 24 table of co n tents if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and 25 table of co n tents it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. in addition, some of our oem customers are developing their own fiber laser sources. if they are successful, this may reduce our sales to these customers. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. failure to effectively maintain and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. it is important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to maintain and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train 26 table of co n tents additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement and manage our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have experienced rapid growth and have extensive and complex international manufacturing and sales and service locations which may make us more vulnerable to weaknesses in our internal controls. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. our information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, interruptions and failures. if unauthorized access is obtained to our information systems, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 under the updated framework issued in 2013. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers, employees and service providers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, employees and service providers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee 27 table of co n tents information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any unauthorized access could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in a misappropriation of our assets (including cash), lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. additionally, such actions could result in significant costs associated with loss of our intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, rebuilding our network and systems, prosecuting and defending litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or taking other remedial steps. in addition, we may incur significant costs designed to prevent or mitigate the damage related to cybersecurity incidents. for instance, we may retain additional employees or consultants, implement new policies and procedures, and install information technology to detect and prevent identity theft, data breaches, or system disruptions. we would incur any such costs with the intent that proactively preventing a cybersecurity incident ultimately helps to mitigate potential cybersecurity liability. the costs to address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, a cessation of service, and a loss of existing or potential customers, impeding our sales, manufacturing, distribution, and other critical functions. we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks due to laws and regulations regulating the protection or security of personal and other sensitive data. we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks due to laws and regulations regulating the protection or security of personal and other sensitive data, including in particular several laws and regulations that have recently been enacted or adopted or are likely to be enacted or adopted in the future. for instance, effective may 25, 2018, the european general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) imposes additional obligations and risk upon our business and increases substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal data (generally, of eu residents), including its use, protection and the rights of affected persons regarding their data. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, several other jurisdictions around the world have recently enacted privacy laws or regulations similar to gdpr. for instance, california enacted the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which is effective january 1, 2020 and which gives consumers many of the same rights as those available under gdpr. several laws similar to the ccpa have been proposed in the united states at both the federal and state level. gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business. we are evaluating its processes and taking measures to ensure compliance with all applicable privacy and data protection-related laws and regulations. due to the lack of experience with the interpretation and enforcement of many of these laws and regulations, some measures initially might not satisfy standard or best practices that will be established in the coming years. we are subject to government regulations, including tariffs, duties and export control regulations, that could restrict our international sales and negatively affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export and import of components and products among many countries, including the u.s., germany, russia and china. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. in january 2018, the u.s. treasury department presented the u.s. congress with a report on oligarchs as required under the countering america's adversaries through sanctions act of 2017. our founder, ceo and chairman is one of nearly 100 persons on the list of oligarchs on the basis of his reported net worth and birth in russia. uncertainties and reputational 28 table of co n tents damage from his naming in the treasury report, the imposition of trade sanctions and/or future legislation relying on the treasury department's list of so-called oligarchs could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. the united states, germany, the european union, china, japan, south korea and many other foreign governments impose tariffs and duties on the import and export of products, including some of those which we sell. the u.s. has recently instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the united states, including, in particular, on chinese goods, economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries where we conduct our business. for example, in september 2018, the office of the u.s. trade representative announced that the current u.s. administration would impose a 10% tariff on approximately $200 billion worth of imports from china into the united states, effective september 24, 2018, which is expected to increase to 25% in the first half of 2019. we have recently seen a drop in demand for our chinese customers, particularly in the materials processing market. as a result, some of our customers are reevaluating expansion plans and delaying and, in limited cases, canceling orders. these policy changes and proposals could require time-consuming and expensive alterations to our business operations and may result in greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade, which could negatively impact our competitiveness in jurisdictions around the world as well as lead to an increase in costs in our supply chain. we are a multinational corporation, with manufacturing located both in the united states and internationally and with approximately 85% of our net sales arising from foreign customers. as such, we may be more susceptible to negative impacts from these tariffs or change in trade policies than other less internationally focused enterprises. in addition, new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments, including the chinese government (which has imposed retaliatory tariffs on a range of u.s. goods including certain photonics products), have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain u.s. manufactured goods. such changes by the united states and other countries have the potential to adversely impact u.s. and worldwide economic conditions, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. at december 31, 2018, 71% of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were in the united states and 29% were outside the united states. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, prevailing interest rates, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations, implement our operating strategy or complete acquisitions. 29 table of co n tents we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in april 2020 and july 2020, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2018, we had 52,941,607 shares of common stock outstanding and 2,207,750 shares subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units and performance stock units. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file covering newly issued shares or shares held by affiliates or others could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 31% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd., of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 31% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of the company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. provisions in our charter documents and delaware law, and our severance arrangements, could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of 30 table of co n tents our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with the company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to the company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. the terms of our agreements with executives include change-of-control severance provisions which provide for the payment of cash following a termination of employment following a change of control. these provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition, make a merger or acquisition more costly for a potential acquirer, or make removal of incumbent directors or officers more difficult. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 31 table of co n tents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, corporate notes and government and agency securities. none of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the russian ruble, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. in 2018 we incurred a loss on foreign exchange transactions of $6.2 million as compared to a loss of $14.5 million in 2017. management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. the effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. as a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. furthermore, if we expect a currency movement to be beneficial to us in the short or medium term, we have, on occasions, chosen not to hedge or otherwise off-set the underlying assets or liabilities. however, it is difficult to predict foreign currency movements accurately. at december 31, 2018, our material foreign currency exposure is net u.s. dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the euro or the russian ruble is the functional currency and u.s. dollar denominated liabilities where the chinese yuan is the functional currency. the net u.s. dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables, inter-company receivables and inter-company notes offset by third party and inter-company u.s. dollar denominated payables. the u.s. dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the euro applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances as of december 31, 2018, would result in a foreign exchange gain of $0.5 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $0.5 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. in addition we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. as discussed in our results of operations, this can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. in addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss. foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2018. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. 50 table of co n tentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, other transportation, heavy industry, electronics and photovoltaic industries. approximately 94% of our revenues in 2019 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession and our material processing sales declined 10% in the second half of 2018 and 11% in the 2019 fiscal year, in part due to decreased capital equipment demand stemming from adverse changes to u.s.-china relations, including rounds of tariff increases and retaliations. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in these industries or markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand, as well as forecasted demand, for their products or services. a softening of demand for our customers' products and services, whether caused by a weakening of the u.s. or global economies or other factors, may result in decreased revenue or growth for our customers and may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough or sufficiently, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development and infrastructure for long term growth. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in 13 table of contents various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. a significant portion of our sales are to customers in china, which accounted for 37%, 43% and 44% in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. a slowing of economic growth or recession, tariff-trade wars or other adverse economic developments or uncertainty in any of our key markets, including in china, may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. an economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced gross margins or the loss of market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. we compete with makers of fiber lasers, solid-state lasers, direct diode lasers, high power co 2, yag and disc lasers. these include public and private companies such as coherent, inc., laserline gmbh, lumentum holdings inc., maxphotonics co., ltd., nlight, inc., raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., and trumpf gmbh + co. kg, as well as other smaller competitors. many of our fiber laser competitors are increasing the output powers and improving quality of their fiber lasers and decreasing prices to compete with our products. several of these are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as water-jet cutting and resistance welding. our current or potential customers may determine to develop and produce products for their own use which are competitive to our products. such vertical integration could reduce the market opportunity for our products. we also compete in the materials processing, advanced and medical applications markets with end users that produce their own solid-state and gas lasers as well as with manufacturers of non-laser methods and tools, such as traditional non-laser welding and cutting dies in the materials processing market and scalpels in the medical market. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors' products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors' products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development, manufacturing facilities and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. as a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of sales and loss of market share. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. our products are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a significant decline in average selling prices ("asps") as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. newer market participants, particularly in china, have reduced and may continue to reduce, prices of competing products to gain market share. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. our level of sales depends upon our ability to penetrate new applications and end markets for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously and in applications in which other lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. we have made significant sales into the 14 table of contents cutting, welding and marking and engraving applications, large applications where the use of other laser technologies was well established. as fiber lasers reach higher levels of penetration in core materials processing applications, the development of new applications, end markets and products outside our core applications becomes more important to our ability to generate sales. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications for materials processing, medical, communications or other applications such as cinema and projection; successfully develop new product lines, such as uv, visible and ultrafast fiber lasers, with competitive features that extend our product line; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively meet growing competition and pricing pressures; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies. they may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and profitability of integrating of fiber lasers in their systems when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market or that they manufacture themselves. despite fiber lasers having better performance and prices compared to other lasers or tools, oem customers may be reluctant to switch incumbent suppliers or we may miss the design cycles of our customers. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. if we are unable to successfully implement our strategy to develop new applications and end markets for our products or develop new products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, any newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 75% of our approximately 5,960 employees as of december 31, 2019 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough or sufficiently to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. decreases in inventory may decrease our overhead absorption and decrease our gross margins and profitability. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany, russia and belarus. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we had capital expenditures 15 table of contents of $134 million and $160 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $115 million to $125 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2020. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, project cancellations, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 21%, 26% and 28% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 9%, 12% and 13% of sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. a few of our larger customers are making fiber lasers or announced plans to develop fiber lasers. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. foreign currency risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2019 our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates or holds assets or liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to u.s. dollars. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. our principal markets include china, the united states, germany, switzerland, japan, italy, korea, turkey and russia. a substantial majority of our revenues are derived from customers outside the united states. in addition, we have substantial tangible assets outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including the following and others mentioned in the risk factors: fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes, including recession, and other general economic uncertainties affecting the macroeconomic and local economic communities in which we and our customers operate or serve; longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; compliance with domestic and foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses, trade sanctions and other trade barriers, and any corresponding retaliatory actions by affected countries, including china and russia; certification requirements; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, labor unrest and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; 16 table of contents difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; export and import restrictions; and limitations on the ability of our employees to travel without restriction to certain countries in which we operate. political, economic and monetary instability and changes in governmental regulations or policies, including trade tariffs and protectionism, could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries as well as finished lasers to china. further, approximately 37% of our sales in 2019 were to customers in china. we are also investing in manufacturing facilities in belarus. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these three countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia, china and belarus. in recent years, these countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging economy, none of these three countries possess a well-developed business, financial, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia, china and belarus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. we must comply with and could be impacted by various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations that are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. our business activities are subject to various export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the u.s. commerce department's export administration regulations, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control's trade and economic sanctions programs, the u.s. department of state's nonproliferation sanctions, as well as those of the european community and germany, which we collectively refer to as trade controls. we have a large manufacturing facility and research and development operations in russia which supplies components to our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities and finished lasers to our subsidiary in china. in addition, we supply components from our u.s. and german manufacturing facilities to our russian facility. should there be any disruption of our supplies from or to our russian operations, or should the united states, the european union or russia implement new or broad-based trade controls, our production and/or deliveries as well as results of operations would be affected. although we have implemented compliance measures designed to prevent transactions prohibited by current or future trade controls, our failure to successfully comply with applicable trade controls may expose us to negative legal and business consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and reputational harm. in addition, trade controls and their implementation are fluid and may change due to diplomatic and political considerations outside of our control. such changes, including the potential expansion of sanctions and sanctions designations, as well as public statements by government officials, could be significant, require us to take certain actions to be in compliance, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, have a reputational impact, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on us, our business, and our ability to raise capital. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price and may be difficult to predict. 17 table of contents we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include those below and others included in the risk factors: general economic conditions and uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economies in which we or our customers operate and serve; the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures and new market entrants; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any provisions for excess or obsolete inventory; our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable balances; incurring expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; incurring expenses related to impairment of values for goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; expenses associated with acquisition-related activities; foreign currency fluctuations; health pandemic; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months or more. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be canceled or delayed without significant penalty or any penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in addition, provisions have been recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales due to declines in certain end market demand and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological and product changes, and excess quantities. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $38.9 million, $13.0 million and $16.9 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing 18 table of contents of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are highly dependent on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our ceo, coo and other senior management and scientific staff. the unavailability or loss of one or more of these key employees or our failure to attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to compete successfully could harm our business and results of operations. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service and performance of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 80, and our chief operating officer, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 72. they play key roles setting our strategic direction, directing the development of new technologies and maintaining our culture. the unavailability of either key executive could have a material impact on our business. although the board engages in executive succession planning, our inability to effectively and immediately transition knowledge or responsibilities to their successors in the event of an unexpected absence or departure could harm our business and disrupt our operations. we also rely on our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may depart for a variety of reasons, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for physicists, software engineers and other technical staff. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, it could delay the development or introduction of new products, negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products, and significantly harm our business. we pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial results and condition. we make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. although we have pursued acquisitions small in size in the past, we may pursue larger transactions in the future. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, reduce consolidated margins, cause us to incur impairment charges and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses, business cultures, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products, or retain key employees. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management's attention, require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations, incur unanticipated costs or liabilities, including the costs associated with improving the internal controls of the acquired company. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets, which would negatively affect our results of operations. we review our goodwill for impairment annually and other long-lived assets, including intangible assets identified in business combinations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, lack of growth in our relevant business units or differences in the estimated product acceptance rates could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. for example, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $37.1 million in 2019. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make significant judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance at many points during the analysis. also, the process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents in the past, we were subject to litigation alleging that we infringed third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we have defended against several patent infringement litigations in the past and we engage in patent office opposition proceedings internationally for patents owned by others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff's attorneys' fees; and attempt to license the relevant intellectual property which may not be available on reasonable terms. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we have significant international operations and are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees' inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. however, there can be no assurance that confidentiality agreements we enter into with consultants, suppliers, employees and others will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual 20 table of contents property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes, specialty optical fibers and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these are not readily available from other sources at our current costs any may not be available at all. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in massachusetts, germany and russia. we are building additional manufacturing in belarus. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers may not be able to meet demand from our growing business or because of global demand for their components. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers or if they perceive us to be an actual or potential competitor, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. in addition, some of our oem customers are developing their own fiber laser sources. if they are successful, this may reduce our sales to these customers. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income 21 table of contents tax returns by the internal revenue service ("irs") and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser and other products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our products involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair co sts, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. additionally, a recall, particularly in our products used or incorporated in medical devices, could result in significant costs and lost sales and customers, enforcement actions and/or investigations by state and federal governments or other enforcement bodies, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce future demand for our products. the development and sale of medical devices and component products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and other products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products and result in significant product liability claims being brought against us . a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consumin g and costly to defend. if a product liability action were determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including punitive damages, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we or our third-party vendors fail to comply with fda regulations or similar legal requirements in foreign jurisdictions relating to the manufacturing of our products or any component part, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties, and our ability to commercially distribute and sell our products may be negatively impacted. we sell our commercial fiber and diode laser modules, subassemblies and systems to oems that incorporate them into their medical products. our ultrafast, cw and qcw fiber lasers and diode laser systems can be used in various medical and biomedical applications. with respect to such products, some of our manufacturing facilities, and the manufacturing facilities of any of our third-party component manufacturers or critical suppliers, are required to comply with the fda's quality system regulation ( qsr ), which sets forth minimum standards for the procedures, execution and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, and shipping of the products we sell in the medical industry, and related regulations, including medical device reporting ( mdr ) regulations regarding reporting of certain malfunctions and adverse events potentially associated with our products. the fda may evaluate our compliance with the qsr, mdr and other regulations, among other ways, through periodic announced or unannounced inspections which could disrupt our operations and interrupt our manufacturing. if in conducting an inspection of our manufacturing facilities, or the manufacturing facilities of any of our third-party component manufacturers or critical suppliers, an fda investigator observes conditions or practices believed to violate the qsr, the investigator may document their observations on a form fda 483 that is issued at the conclusion of the inspection. a manufacturer that receives an fda 483 may respond in writing and explain any corrective actions taken in response to the inspectional observations. the fda will typically review the facility's written response and may re-inspect to determine the facility's compliance with the qsr and other applicable regulatory requirements. failure to take adequate and timely corrective actions to remedy objectionable conditions listed on an fda 483 could result in the fda taking administrative or enforcement actions. among these may be the fda's issuance of a warning letter to a manufacturer, which informs it that the fda considers the observed violations to be of regulatory significance that, if not corrected, could result in further enforcement action. fda enforcement actions, which include seizure, injunction, criminal prosecution, and civil penalties, could result in total or partial suspension of a facility's production and/or distribution, product recalls, fines, suspension of the fda's review of product applications, and/or the fda's issuance of adverse publicity. thus, an adverse inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations for products servicing the medical industry or a recall of such products. adverse inspections could also delay fda approval of our products for the medical industry. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. 22 table of contents the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies and new equipment. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have experienced rapid growth and have extensive and complex international manufacturing and sales and service locations which may make us more vulnerable to weaknesses in our internal controls. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. our information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, interruptions and failures. if unauthorized access is obtained to our information systems, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management's attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 under the updated framework issued in 2013. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers, employees and service providers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data or technology, including information regarding our customers, employees and service providers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any unauthorized access could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in a misappropriation of our assets (including cash), lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. additionally, such actions could result in significant costs associated with loss of our intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, rebuilding our network and systems, prosecuting and defending litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or taking other remedial steps. in addition, we may incur significant costs designed to prevent or mitigate the damage related to cybersecurity incidents. for instance, we may retain additional employees or consultants, implement new policies and procedures, and install information technology to detect and prevent identity theft, data breaches, or system disruptions. we would incur any such costs with the intent that proactively preventing a cybersecurity incident ultimately helps to mitigate potential cybersecurity liability. the costs to address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, a cessation of service, and a loss of existing or potential customers, impeding our sales, manufacturing, distribution, and other critical functions. we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks due to laws and regulations regulating the protection or security of personal and other sensitive data. 23 table of contents we may face particular privacy, data security and data protection risks due to laws and regulations regulating the protection or security of personal and other sensitive data, including in particular several laws and regulations that have recently been enacted or adopted or are likely to be enacted or adopted in the future. for instance, effective may 25, 2018, the european general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) imposes additional obligations and risk upon our business and increases substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal data (generally, of eu residents), including its use, protection and the rights of affected persons regarding their data. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, several other jurisdictions around the world have recently enacted privacy laws or regulations similar to gdpr. for instance, california enacted the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which is effective january 1, 2020 and which gives consumers many of the same rights as those available under gdpr. several laws similar to the ccpa have been proposed in the united states at both the federal and state level. gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business. we are evaluating its processes and taking measures to ensure compliance with all applicable privacy and data protection-related laws and regulations. due to the lack of experience with the interpretation and enforcement of many of these laws and regulations, some measures initially might not satisfy standard or best practices that will be established in the coming years. we are subject to government regulations, including tariffs, duties and export control regulations, that could restrict our international sales and negatively affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export and import of components and products among many countries, including the u.s., germany, russia and china. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. the united states, germany, the european union, china, japan, south korea and many other foreign governments impose tariffs and duties on the import and export of products, including some of those which we sell. the u.s. has recently instituted and proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the united states, including, in particular, on chinese goods, economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries where we conduct our business. we have seen a drop in demand for our products, particularly in the materials processing market as result. these policy changes and proposals could require time-consuming and expensive alterations to our business operations and may result in greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade, which could negatively impact our competitiveness in jurisdictions around the world as well as lead to an increase in costs in our supply chain. we are a multinational corporation, with manufacturing located both in the united states and internationally and with approximately 80% of our net sales arising from foreign customers. as such, we may be more susceptible to negative impacts from these tariffs or change in trade policies than other less internationally focused enterprises. in addition, new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments, including the chinese government (which has imposed retaliatory tariffs on a range of u.s. goods including certain optical and electronic products and components), have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain u.s. manufactured goods. such changes by the united states and other countries have the potential to adversely impact u.s. and worldwide economic conditions, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. we are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have both domestic and international investments. at december 31, 2019, 63% of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were in the united states and 37% were outside the united states. credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, prevailing interest rates, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. also, our investments may be negatively affected by events that impact the banks or depositories that hold our investments. as a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations, implement our operating strategy or complete acquisitions. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in april 2020 and july 2020, respectively. uncertainty or disruptions in financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, changes in reference rates for interest such as the scheduled discontinuation of libor in 2021 and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 31% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd., of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 31% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including election of our directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of the company and might affect the market price of our common stock. provisions in our charter documents and delaware law, and our severance arrangements, could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more 25 table of contents of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; establishing a classified board and providing that directors thereon may only be removed for cause; providing that directors fill board vacancies; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; supermajority stockholder approval to change certificate of incorporation and by-laws and lack of cumulative voting for director elections. section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to the company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. the terms of our employment agreements and severance plan with executives include change-of-control severance provisions which provide for the payment of cash following a termination of employment following a change of control. these provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition, make a merger or acquisition costlier for a potential acquirer, or make removal of incumbent directors or officers more difficult. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk . our investments have limited exposure to market risk. we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate notes. none of these investments have a maturity date in excess of one year. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are also exposed to market risk as a result of increases or decreases in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. our interest obligations on our long-term debt are fixed. although our u.s. revolving line of credit and our euro credit facility have variable rates, we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the russian ruble, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the russian ruble. in 2019 we incurred a loss on foreign exchange transactions of $12.8 million as compared to a gain of $6.2 million in 2018. management attempts to minimize these exposures by partially or fully off-setting foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at our subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies. the effectiveness of this strategy can be limited by the volume of underlying transactions at various subsidiaries and by our ability to accelerate or delay inter-company cash settlements. as a result, we are unable to create a perfect offset of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. furthermore, if we expect a currency movement to be beneficial to us in the short or medium term, we have, on occasions, chosen not to hedge or otherwise off-set the underlying assets or liabilities. however, it is difficult to predict foreign currency movements accurately. at december 31, 2019, our material foreign currency exposure is net u.s. dollar denominated assets at subsidiaries where the euro or the russian ruble is the functional currency and u.s. dollar denominated liabilities where the chinese yuan is the functional currency. the net u.s. dollar denominated assets are comprised of cash, third party receivables, inter-company receivables and inter-company notes offset by third party and inter-company u.s. dollar denominated payables. the u.s. dollar denominated liabilities are comprised of inter-company payables. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the euro applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances as of december 31, 2019, would result in a foreign exchange gain of $5.6 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $5.6 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the ruble applied to the net u.s. dollar asset balances as of december 31, 2019, would result in a foreign exchange gain of $4.4 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $4.4 million foreign exchange loss if the u.s. dollar depreciated. a 5% change in the relative exchange rate of the u.s. dollar to the yuan applied to the net u.s. dollar liability balances as of december 31, 2019, would result in a foreign exchange loss of $5.7 million if the u.s. dollar appreciated and a $5.7 million foreign exchange gain if the u.s. dollar depreciated. in addition, we are exposed to foreign currency translation risk for those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar as changes in the value of their functional currency relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the translated amounts of our revenue, expenses, net income, assets and liabilities. as discussed in our results of operations, this can, in turn, affect the reported value and relative growth of sales and net income from one period to the next. in addition changes in the translated value of assets and liabilities due to changes in functional currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar result in foreign currency translation adjustments that are a component of other comprehensive income or loss. 46 table of contents foreign currency derivative instruments can also be used to hedge exposures and reduce the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection and can carry significant cost. we have no foreign currency derivative instrument hedges as of december 31, 2019. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future.risk factors 19 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the geographic areas and markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, heavy industry, aerospace, consumer, semiconductor and electronics. approximately 88.4% of our revenues in 2011 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for 19 table of contents these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, in 2009, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. our sales have materially benefited in 2010 and 2011 from our increased sales of mid- and high-power lasers to end users in china. a slowing of economic growth, or a recession in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. decreased demand for products and services from customers for materials processing applications during an economic downturn or a decrease in purchases from end users in china may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. our business is impacted by global economic conditions and macroeconomic downturns can disrupt our business and sales and may harm our financial condition. we have customers in many geographic areas. if a global economic downtown were to occur, we believe many of our customers would significantly decrease their capital expenditures to cut their costs. accordingly, we believe our ability to generate sales is particularly sensitive to global and regional macroeconomic conditions. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our ability to estimate future income and expenditures. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. our sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; 20 table of contents effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; extend our product line to address new applications; develop new applications for our products; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 77% of our 2,137 employees as of december 31, 2011 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from makers of co 2 , yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of laser solutions may lower prices to maintain or increase current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. 21 table of contents in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and some have introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. in response to an increase in demand for our fiber lasers, we added substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia in the period from 2005 to 2008. beginning in 2010, we entered another phase of expanding capacity at those manufacturing facilities. we continue to expand our capacity further in russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invested significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and will do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $53.0 million and $28.4 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $55 million to $60 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2012. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices, or asps, as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. 22 table of contents because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for inventory totaling $6.1 million, $2.7 million and $5.3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us and in 2010 we settled another patent infringement lawsuit filed against us. in november 2006, imra america, inc. filed an action against us alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america alleged willful infringement and sought damages, including for alleged lost profits, of at least $26 million through june 2011, treble damages, attorneys fees and injunctive relief. imra america also alleged inducement of infringement and contributory infringement. we filed an answer in which we denied infringement and also filed declaratory judgment counterclaims based on this and other defenses. this lawsuit concerns products made, used, sold or offered for 23 table of contents sale in or imported into the united states and therefore the lawsuit affects products that account for a substantial portion of our revenues. this lawsuit does not concern products, or revenues that are derived from products, that are not made, used, sold or offered for sale in or imported into the united states. in june 2008, the u.s. patent and trademark office, or uspto, ordered re-examination of the patent claims asserted by imra america against the company. in july 2009, the uspto confirmed the patentability of all of the claims in the imra america patent over the prior art cited in the re-examination, as well as of new claims added during the re-examination. in august 2009, we submitted an additional re-examination request, which was denied by the uspto. the uspto issued a re-examination certificate in october 2009. the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan adopted the claim construction of imra america on one of the four claim terms, but did not decide the others. in march 2011, the district court granted our motion for partial summary judgment of no marking or no statutory notice, which had the effect of precluding imra america from seeking damages for any alleged infringing products sold prior to november 16, 2006, the date the lawsuit was filed, with the exception of four particular alleged infringing products, as to which imra america is precluded from seeking damages for sales prior to august 6, 2006. the u.s. district court denied our motions for summary judgment on non-infringement, invalidity, no willful infringement and laches, and granted imra america motions for summary judgment on no invalidity for derivation and no equitable misconduct. the trial occurred in september and october 2011, and the jury returned a unanimous verdict that we did not infringe imra america patent. imra america has filed post-trial motions seeking to set aside the jury verdict. imra america also has the right to appeal the verdict. imra america has also informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. the company has filed oppositions in japan and germany to two patents owned by imra america. in japan, the patent office invalidated two claims and maintained 49 claims of the imra america patent, and we are appealing the decision. the german opposition is pending and there has been no decision. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any post-trial motions or appeals made in the litigation with imra america, or claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, including the imra america litigation, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. 24 table of contents our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. although we acquired a patent portfolio in 2008 and started a program in 2007 to increase the number of patent applications we file, our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing facilities were damaged significantly or incapacitated, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. if, as a result of a flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities. 25 table of contents also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, modulators, micro-optics and bulk optics, from single or limited-source suppliers. in general, we have no long-term contractual supply arrangements with these suppliers. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers reduced their inventory levels and manufacturing capacity because of the recent recession. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 73, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 64, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. while we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions or investments, in the future we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies that we believe could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. we have limited experience in making acquisitions and, therefore, we may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities. any acquisition or investment opportunities that we are able to identify may present a number of risks and challenges, including: inability to negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms; diversion of management attention from our existing businesses to integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; 26 table of contents failure of the acquired business or investment to achieve our long-term objectives, including operational, profitability and investment return objectives; and the inability to achieve other intended objectives of the transaction. in addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies. to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. in addition, any future acquisition may involve companies, products or technologies located outside of the united states, which may further complicate the consummation and integration of the acquisition. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 17%, 19% and 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the delivery, installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; 27 table of contents seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products and components on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; the relative proportions of our u.s. and international sales; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels; any inventory write-downs related to excess quantities and obsolete items; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. foreign currency transaction and translation risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2011, our net sales outside the united states represented a significant portion of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues because exchange rates between two currencies can change between the transaction date and the time of settlement. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the translated u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. 28 table of contents we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and we may need to incur significant costs to address the operational requirements related to our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. we have been experiencing a period of significant growth and expansion, both in the united states and internationally, which has required, and will continue to require, increased efforts of our management and other resources. our recent and anticipated growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant strain on our research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. to manage our growth, we will need to continue to monitor our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employees. for example, we must implement new modules of our management information and customer relationship management systems, hire and train new sales representatives, service, application, financial and information technology personnel, and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. these may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. if we fail to adequately manage our expected growth, or to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively motivate or manage our new and future employees, the quality of our products and the management of our operations could suffer and our operating results could be adversely affected. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia and china are our principal markets. a significant amount of our revenues are derived from customers, and we have substantial tangible assets, outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods and less-developed credit assessment and collection procedures; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; 29 table of contents environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; and fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are also subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. the results of operations, business prospects and facilities of nto ire-polus are subject to the economic and political environment in russia. in 2010, a russian investor purchased a minority interest in nto ire-polus. as a minority investor, it has rights under russian law, as well as under our negotiated agreements with it. even though we control a supermajority of the shares and a majority of the board, certain actions require unanimous shareholder approval, including changes to capital, additional investments, use of proceeds other than initially agreed to uses and amounts, distributions, transactions in excess of agreed upon amounts and related party transactions. in recent years russia has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, russia does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within russia is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of russia remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with nto ire-polus and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our 30 table of contents fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, components, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to, or service products for, customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. our ability to access financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the u.s. and germany expire in june 2015 and june 2012, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. we may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. 31 table of contents we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and two trusts he created collectively control approximately 38% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with two trusts he created beneficially own approximately 38% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev, together with his affiliates and associates, ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; 32 table of contents providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev, together with his affiliates and associates, ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement, could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2011, we had 47,616,115 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 2,724,572 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is effectively fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 63% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2011. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese yuan and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the japanese yen and the russian ruble. gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions totaled a $2.9 million gain in 2011 and a $0.8 million gain in 2010. we estimate that if exchange rates had been the same as one year ago, sales in 2011 would have been $17.2 million lower, gross margin would have been $7.1 million lower and total operating expenses would have been $2.0 million lower. the measures that assume constant exchange rates between fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010 are calculated using the average exchange rates for the twelve-month period ended december 31, 2010 for the respective currencies, which were euro 1=us$1.33, japanese yen 1= us$0.01 and russian ruble 1=us$0.03. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in additional financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. no foreign currency derivative instruments were outstanding at december 31, 2011.risk factors 19 risk factors the factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. in addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. downturns in the markets we serve, particularly materials processing, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. our business depends substantially upon capital expenditures by our customers, particularly by manufacturers in the materials processing market, which includes general manufacturing, automotive, marking, electronics and photovoltaic applications. approximately 88% of our revenues in 2012 were from customers in the materials processing market. although applications in this market are broad, sales for these applications are cyclical and have historically experienced sudden and severe downturns and periods of oversupply, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. for example, our sales decreased by 25% in the materials processing market in 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. for the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in this market, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for their products or services. decreased demand for products and services from customers for these applications during an economic downturn may lead to decreased demand for our products, which would reduce our sales and margins. we may not be able to respond by decreasing our expenses quickly enough, due in part, to our fixed overhead structure related to our vertically integrated operations and our commitments to continuing investment in research and development. uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate negatively affect our business. current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. as a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. it is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the materials processing, telecommunications, advanced and medical markets and applications in which we participate. because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets and applications we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties 19 table of contents render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. our sales have benefited in 2012, 2011 and 2010 from our increased sales of mid and high-power lasers to end users in china. a slowing of economic growth, or a recession in china, would slow our growth rates or may result in a decrease in our sales. adverse changes have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. these changes may negatively affect the sales of our lasers and amplifiers, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales depend upon our ability to penetrate new applications for fiber lasers and increase our market share in existing applications. our level of sales will depend on our ability to generate sales of fiber lasers in applications where conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag lasers, have been used or in new and developing markets and applications for lasers where they have not been used previously. to date, a significant portion of our revenue growth has been derived from sales of fiber lasers primarily for applications where co 2 and yag lasers historically have been used. in order to maintain or increase market demand for our fiber laser products, we will need to devote substantial resources to: demonstrate the effectiveness of fiber lasers in new applications; increase our direct and indirect sales efforts; effectively service and support our installed product base on a global basis; extend our product line to address new applications for our products; and continue to reduce our manufacturing costs and enhance our competitive position. if we are unable to implement our strategy to develop new applications for our products, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy. in addition, our newly developed or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance or may be rendered obsolete or less competitive by the introduction of new products by other companies. if fiber lasers do not achieve broader market acceptance or if market penetration occurs more slowly than we expect, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. fiber lasers are relatively new when compared to conventional lasers and our future success depends on the development and broader acceptance of fiber lasers. potential customers may be reluctant to adopt fiber lasers as an alternative to conventional lasers, such as co 2 and yag, and non-laser methods, such as mechanical tools. such potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing laser and non-laser technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fiber lasers when compared to other laser or non-laser technologies available in the market. many of our target markets, such as the automotive, machine tool and other manufacturing, communications and medical industries, have historically adopted new technologies slowly. these markets often require long test and qualification periods or lengthy government approval processes before adopting new technologies. as a result, we may expend significant resources and time to qualify our products for a new customer application, and we cannot assure that our products will be qualified or approved for such markets. if acceptance of fiber laser technology and of our fiber lasers in particular does not continue to grow within the markets that we serve, then the opportunities to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited. 20 table of contents our vertically integrated business results in high levels of fixed costs and inventory levels that may adversely impact our gross profits and our operating results in the event that demand for our products declines or we maintain excess inventory levels. we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model, including the fact that approximately 76% of our approximately 2,400 employees as of december 31, 2012 were employed in our manufacturing operations. we may not adjust these fixed costs quickly enough to adapt to rapidly changing market conditions. our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales, is impacted by our sales volume, the corresponding absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses and manufacturing yields. in addition, because we are a vertically integrated manufacturer and design and manufacture our key specialty components, insufficient demand for our products may subject us to the risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased inventory obsolescence. if our capacity and production levels are not properly sized in relation to expected demand, we may need to record write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory. because we are vertically integrated, the rate at which we turn inventory has historically been low when compared to our cost of sales. we do not expect this to change significantly in the future and believe that we will have to maintain a relatively high level of inventory compared to our cost of sales. as a result, we continue to expect to have a significant amount of working capital invested in inventory. changes in our level of inventory lead to an increase in cash generated from our operations when inventory is sold or a decrease in cash generated from our operations at times when the amount of inventory increases. our manufacturing capacity and operations may not be appropriate for future levels of demand and may adversely affect our gross margins. we have added and are continuing to add substantial manufacturing capacity at our facilities in the united states, germany and russia. a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our semiconductor production and processing equipment, diode packaging equipment and diode burn-in stations, are special-purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. if the demand for fiber lasers or amplifiers does not increase or if our revenue decreases from current levels, we may have significant excess manufacturing capacity and under-absorption of our fixed costs, which could in turn adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. to maintain our competitive position as the leading developer and manufacturer of fiber lasers and to meet anticipated demand for our products, we invest significantly in the expansion of our manufacturing and operations throughout the world and may do so in the future. we incurred in the past and will incur in the future significant costs associated with the acquisition, build-out and preparation of our facilities. we had capital expenditures of $68.2 million and $53.0 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and we expect to incur approximately $60 million to $70 million in capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, in 2013. in connection with these projects, we may incur cost overruns, construction delays, labor difficulties or regulatory issues which could cause our capital expenditures to be higher than what we currently anticipate, possibly by a material amount, which would in turn adversely impact our operating results. moreover, we may experience higher costs due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems until any operational issues associated with the opening of new manufacturing facilities are resolved. the markets for our products are highly competitive and increased competition could increase our costs, reduce our sales or cause us to lose market share. the industries in which we operate are characterized by significant price and technological competition. our fiber laser and amplifier products compete with conventional laser technologies and amplifier products offered by several well-established companies, some of which are larger and have substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do. also, we compete with widely used non-laser production methods, such as resistance welding. we believe that competition will be particularly intense from 21 table of contents makers of co 2, yag, disc and direct diode lasers, as these makers of conventional solutions may lower prices to maintain current market share and have committed significant research and development resources to pursue opportunities related to these technologies. in addition, we face competition from a growing number of fiber laser makers, including rofin-sinar technologies, inc., trumpf gmbh + co. kg, gsi group inc., coherent inc., hypertherm, inc., newport corporation, the furukawa electric co., ltd., keopsys sa, mitsubishi cable industries, ltd., miyachi unitek corporation, raycus fiber laser technologies co. ltd., maxphotonics co., ltd. and jds uniphase corporation. competition from other fiber laser makers has increased and some have introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our products. we may not be able to successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from our competitors products and current or prospective customers may not consider our products to be superior to competitors products. to maintain our competitive position, we believe that we will be required to continue a high level of investment in research and development, application development and customer service and support, and to react to market pricing conditions. we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to make the technological advances or price adjustments necessary to maintain our competitive position. we also compete against our oem customers internal production of competitive laser technologies. the laser and amplifier industries are experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. products in the laser and amplifier industries generally, and our products specifically, are experiencing and may in the future continue to experience a decline in average selling prices ( asps ) as a result of new product and technology introductions, increased competition and price pressures from significant customers. if the asps of our products decline further and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because of our significant fixed costs, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. because of these factors, we have experienced and we may experience in the future material adverse fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis if the asps of our products continue to decline. we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. these fluctuations may increase the volatility of our stock price. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. we believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. factors which may have an influence on our operating results in a particular quarter include: the increase, decrease, cancellation or rescheduling of significant customer orders; the timing of revenue recognition based on the installation or acceptance of certain products shipped to our customers; seasonality attributable to different purchasing patterns and levels of activity throughout the year in the areas where we operate; the timing of customer qualification of our products and commencement of volume sales of systems that include our products; our ability to obtain export licenses for our products on a timely basis or at all; the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies; 22 table of contents the gain or loss of a key customer; product or customer mix; competitive pricing pressures; our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; our ability to manage our inventory levels and any inventory write-downs; the incurrence of expenses to develop and improve application and support capabilities, the benefits of which may not be realized until future periods, if at all; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; foreign currency fluctuations; and our ability to control expenses. these factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. in addition, our ability to accurately predict our operating results is complicated by the fact that many of our products have long sales cycles, some lasting as long as twelve months. once a sale is made, our delivery schedule typically ranges from four weeks to four months, and therefore our sales will often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter that they are received and will not enhance our ability to predict our results for future quarters. in addition, long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues since customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them. moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. accordingly, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter, and we may not be able to accurately predict when these fluctuations will occur. we may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products, patents or technologies. these may involve risks which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. we currently have no binding commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions and have limited experience in making acquisitions. in the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products, patents and technologies and expand into new geographic areas, or we may acquire operations, products or technologies that expand our current capabilities. acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value of the acquired company, asset or technology to us. for example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products, patents or technologies into our existing business and products. as a result of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may misjudge the long-term potential of an acquired business, product, patent or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. in addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability and result in dilution to our existing and future stockholders. because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our sales can be difficult to predict, which could lead to excess or obsolete inventory and adversely affect our operating results. we generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules 23 table of contents and, in some cases, orders may be cancelled or delayed without significant penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. in addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our oem customers, end users and distributors, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. this could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. in this regard, we recorded provisions for slow-moving, obsolete or excess inventory totaling $8.2 million, $6.1 million and $2.7 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. these provisions were recorded as a result of changes in market prices of certain components, the value of those inventories that was realizable through finished product sales and uncertainties related to the recoverability of the value of inventories due to technological changes and excess quantities. if our oem customers, end users or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently negotiate acceptable purchase order terms with customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific staff and if we are unable to retain these key employees and attract other highly skilled personnel necessary to grow our business successfully, our business and results of operations could suffer. our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our executive officers, particularly our founder and chief executive officer, dr. valentin p. gapontsev, age 74, and the managing director of our german subsidiary ipg laser gmbh and senior vice-president, europe, dr. eugene scherbakov, age 65, our highly trained team of scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in optical fibers, semiconductors and optical component technology, and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. the members of our scientific staff who are expected to make significant individual contributions to our business are also members of our executive management team as disclosed under item 10, directors, executive officers and corporate governance below. furthermore, our business requires scientists and engineers with experience in several disciplines, including physics, optics, materials sciences, chemistry and electronics. we will need to continue to recruit and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers for certain functions. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, managerial, operations, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. if we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to extend and maintain our scientific expertise and grow our business could suffer significantly. we are subject to litigation alleging that we are infringing third-party intellectual property rights. intellectual property claims could result in costly litigation and harm our business. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including our own. we face risks and uncertainties in connection with such litigation, including the risk that patents issued to others may harm our ability to do business; that there could be existing patents of which we are unaware that could be pertinent to our business; and that it is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon, since patent applications often are not disclosed until a patent is issued or published. moreover, the frequency with which new patents are granted and the diversity of jurisdictions in which they are granted make it impractical and expensive for us to monitor all patents that may be relevant to our business. from time to time, we have been notified of allegations and claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. in 2007, we settled two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us and in 2010 we settled another patent infringement lawsuit filed against us. following a federal jury trial in 2011, we won a patent infringement lawsuit asserted by imra america, inc. in 2006 alleging that certain products we produce infringe one u.s. patent allegedly owned by imra america. imra america has also 24 table of contents informed us that it has patents and applications in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions directed to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers, but has not asserted them against us. we are engaged in opposition proceedings in japan and germany with respect to two patents allegedly owned by imra america related to the patent imra america asserted against us in the united states. in japan, the patent office invalidated two claims, and subsequently the japanese ip high court concluded that the remaining 49 claims of an imra america patent were invalid. imra is appealing the ip high court decision. the german patent and trademark office concluded that imra claims corresponding to its original patent request and several auxiliary requests were not patentable and found that claims relating to imra final auxiliary request were patentable. we are appealing a portion of this decision favorable to imra. there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose without a material effect any claims or other allegations made or asserted in the future. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain. even if we ultimately are successful on the merits of any such litigation or re-examination, legal and administrative proceedings related to intellectual property are typically expensive and time-consuming, generate negative publicity and divert financial and managerial resources. some litigants may have greater financial resources than we have and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more easily than we can. if we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation brought against us, it could affect our ability to sell our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. these developments could adversely affect our ability to compete for customers and increase our revenues. plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek, and sometimes obtain, injunctive relief. intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; pay actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or increased damages and the plaintiff attorneys fees, which individually or in the aggregate may be substantial; and attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits can be brought by third parties against oems and end users that incorporate our products into their systems or processes. in some cases, we indemnify oems against third-party infringement claims relating to our products and we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. as a result, we may incur liabilities in connection with lawsuits against our customers. any such lawsuits, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation or result in substantial and unanticipated costs. our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies could result in the unauthorized use of our technologies by third parties, hurt our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. we rely on patents, trade secret laws, contractual agreements, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products, product development and manufacturing activities from unauthorized copying by third parties. our patents do not cover all of our technologies, systems, products and product components and may not prevent third parties from unauthorized copying of our technologies, products and product components. we seek to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets. we also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. we have significant international operations and we are subject to foreign laws which differ in many respects from u.s. laws. policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies throughout the world and proving misappropriation of our technologies are particularly difficult, especially due 25 table of contents to the number of our employees and operations in numerous foreign countries. the steps that we take to acquire ownership of our employees inventions and trade secrets in foreign countries may not have been effective under all such local laws, which could expose us to potential claims or the inability to protect intellectual property developed by our employees. furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property positions. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with our consultants and other suppliers to protect our confidential information that we deliver to them. however, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce them or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. given our reliance on trade secret laws, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we have made. therefore, our intellectual property efforts may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage or to stop other parties from commercializing similar products or technologies. many countries outside of the united states afford little or no protection to trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. intellectual property litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to fully enforce our rights. if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights, or the independent development or design of similar technologies, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. we depend upon internal production and on outside single or limited-source suppliers for many of our key components and raw materials, including cutting-edge optics and materials. any interruption in the supply of these key components and raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely exclusively on our own production capabilities to manufacture certain of our key components, such as semiconductor diodes, specialty optical fibers and optical components. we do not have redundant production lines for some of our components, such as our diodes and some other components, which are made at a single manufacturing facility. these may not be readily available from other sources at our current costs. if our manufacturing activities were obstructed or hampered significantly, it could take a considerable length of time, or it could increase our costs, for us to resume manufacturing or find alternative sources of supply. many of the tools and equipment we use are custom-designed, and it could take a significant period of time to repair or replace them. our three major manufacturing facilities are located in oxford, massachusetts; burbach, germany; and fryazino, russia. despite our efforts to mitigate the impact of any flood, fire, natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, our business could be adversely affected to the extent that we do not have redundant production capabilities if any of our three major manufacturing facilities or equipment should become inoperable, inaccessible, damaged or destroyed. also, we purchase certain raw materials used to manufacture our products and other components, such as semiconductor wafer substrates, diode packages, modulators, micro-optics, bulk optics and high-power beam delivery products, from single or limited-source suppliers. we typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed-upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. some of our suppliers are also our competitors. some of our suppliers reduced their inventory levels and manufacturing capacity because of the recent recession or other reasons. as a result, we experienced and may in the future experience longer lead times or delays in fulfillment of our orders. furthermore, other than our current suppliers, there are a limited number of entities from whom we could obtain these supplies. we do not anticipate that we would be able to purchase these components or raw materials that we require in a short period of time or at the same cost from other sources in commercial quantities or that have our required performance specifications. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could adversely affect our business. if our suppliers face financial or other difficulties, if our 26 table of contents suppliers do not maintain sufficient inventory on hand or if there are significant changes in demand for the components and materials we obtain from them, they could limit the availability of these components and materials to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business. failure to effectively build and expand our direct field service and support organization could have an adverse effect on our business. we believe that it will become increasingly important for us to provide rapid, responsive service directly to our customers throughout the world and to build and expand our own personnel resources to provide these services. any actual or perceived lack of direct field service in the locations where we sell or try to sell our products may negatively impact our sales efforts and, consequently, our revenues. accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support systems worldwide. this requires us to recruit and train additional qualified field service and support personnel as well as maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide service to our customers in various countries. we may not be able to attract and train additional qualified personnel to expand our direct support operations successfully. we may not be able to find and engage additional qualified third-party resources to supplement and enhance our direct support operations. further, we may incur significant costs in providing these direct field and support services. failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, and our operating results may suffer. a few customers account for a significant portion of our sales, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. in the aggregate, our top five customers accounted for 16%, 17% and 19% of our consolidated net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. our largest customer is located in china and accounted for 7%, 8% and 7% of sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is located in china. we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our fiber lasers or amplifiers. our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules. if any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we depend on our oem customers and system integrators and their ability to incorporate our products into their systems. our sales depend in part on our ability to maintain existing and secure new oem customers. our revenues also depend in part upon the ability of our current and potential oem customers and system integrators to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser and amplifier products. the commercial success of these systems depends to a substantial degree on the efforts of these oem customers and system integrators to develop and market products that incorporate our technologies. relationships and experience with traditional laser makers, limited marketing resources, reluctance to invest in research and development and other factors affecting these oem customers and third-party system integrators could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. if oem customers or integrators are not able to adapt existing tools or develop new systems to take advantage of the features and benefits of fiber lasers, then the opportunities to increase our revenues and profitability may be severely limited or delayed. furthermore, if our oem customers or third-party system integrators experience financial or other difficulties that adversely affect their operations, our financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. our inability to manage risks associated with our international customers and operations could adversely affect our business. we have significant facilities in and our products are sold in numerous countries. the united states, germany, japan, russia, china, italy and korea are our principal markets. a substantial majority of our revenues 27 table of contents are derived from customers, and we have substantial tangible assets, outside of the united states. we anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. our operations and sales in these markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods and less developed credit assessment and collection procedures; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; changes in a specific country or region economic conditions, such as recession; compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; certification requirements; environmental regulations; less effective protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; different capital expenditure and budget cycles for our customers, which affect the timing of their spending; political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; preference for locally produced products; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; seasonal reductions in business activities; fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions; investment restrictions or requirements; repatriation restrictions or requirements; and export and import restrictions. political and economic instability and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect both our ability to effectively operate our foreign sales offices and the ability of our foreign suppliers to supply us with required materials or services. any interruption or delay in the supply of our required components, products, materials or services, or our inability to obtain these components, materials, products or services from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. we are subject to risks of doing business in russia through our subsidiary, nto ire-polus, which provides components and test equipment to us and sells finished fiber devices to customers in russia and neighboring countries. further, over 20% of our sales are to customers in china. the results of our operations, business prospects and facilities in these two countries are subject to the economic and political environment in russia and china. in recent years, both countries have undergone substantial political, economic and social change. as is typical of an emerging market, neither china nor russia possesses a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. in addition, tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. the future economic direction of these two emerging market countries remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, 28 table of contents legal, regulatory and political developments. our failure to manage the risks associated with our operations in russia and china and our other existing and potential future international business operations could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate. violations of these laws, which are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, could result in significant criminal penalties or sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. foreign currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. in 2012, our net sales outside the united states represented a substantial majority of our total sales. we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations by changing the u.s. dollar value of sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. changes in tax rates, tax liabilities or tax accounting rules could affect future results. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, transfer pricing rules, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. from time to time the united states, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of rules to companies, including various announcements from the united states government potentially impacting our ability to defer taxes on international earnings. we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our products could contain defects, which may reduce sales of those products, harm market acceptance of our fiber laser products or result in claims against us. the manufacture of our fiber lasers and amplifiers involves highly complex and precise processes. despite testing by us and our customers, errors have been found, and may be found in the future, in our products. these defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, incur additional costs related to a recall, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. these problems could result in, among other things, loss of revenues or a delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, harm to our reputation or a delay or loss of market acceptance of our fiber laser products. defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our fiber laser and amplifier products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers, which in turn could damage market acceptance of our products. our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming and costly to defend. 29 table of contents we may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would adversely affect our gross margins. the manufacture of semiconductor diodes and the packaging of them is a highly complex process. manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from diode and packaging operations. we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our diodes and packaged diodes. this occurs during the production of new designs and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. if we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase resulting in lower gross margins, and key component availability would decrease. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as nasdaq and the nyse, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations and other laws such as anti-bribery laws. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or to cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec and adversely affect our stock price. the sec, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. although we test our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the sec, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. difficulties with our information technology systems could harm our business and results of operation. if our network security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer data or our data or our information technology systems, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. like many multinational corporations, we maintain several information technology systems, including software products licensed from third parties. these systems vary from country to country. any system, network or internet failures, misuse by system users, the hacking into or disruption caused by the unauthorized access by third parties or loss of license rights could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products or to report our financial information in compliance with the timelines mandated by the sec. any such 30 table of contents failure, misuse, hacking, disruptions or loss would likely cause a diversion of management attention from the underlying business and could harm our operations. in addition, a significant failure of our various information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to complete an evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. as part of our day-to-day business, we store our data and certain data about our customers in our information technology system. while our system is designed with access security, if a third party gains unauthorized access to our data, including information regarding our customers, such security breach could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, loss of business, litigation and possible liability. these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, employee information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any security breach could result in a loss of confidence by our customers, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. we are subject to export control regulations that could restrict our ability to increase our international sales and may adversely affect our business. a significant part of our business involves the export of our products to other countries. the u.s. government has in place a number of laws and regulations that control the export, re-export or transfer of u.s.-origin products, software and technology. the governments of other countries in which we do business have similar regulations regarding products, software and technology originating in those countries. these laws and regulations may require that we obtain a license before we can export, re-export or transfer certain products, software or technology. the requirement to obtain a license could put us at a competitive disadvantage by restricting our ability to sell products to customers in certain countries or by giving rise to delays or expenses related to obtaining a license. in applying for a license and responding to questions from licensing authorities, we have experienced and, in the future, may experience delays in obtaining export licenses based on issues solely within the control of the applicable government agency. under the discretion of the issuing government agency, an export license may permit the export of one unit to a single customer or multiple units to one or more customers. licenses may also include conditions that limit the use, resale, transfer, re-export, modification, disassembly, or transfer of a product, software or technology after it is exported without first obtaining permission from the relevant government agency. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in government sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and a loss of revenues. delays in obtaining or failure to obtain required export licenses may require us to defer shipments for substantial periods or cancel orders. any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. we could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses in order to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe the costs to maintain compliance with current environmental laws to be material. although we do not currently anticipate that such costs 31 table of contents will become material, if such costs were to become material in the future, whether due to unanticipated changes in environmental laws, unanticipated changes in our operations or other unanticipated changes, we may be required to dedicate additional staff or financial resources in order to maintain compliance. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the lack of, or failure to obtain, permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. our ability to access financial markets to raise capital or finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. we occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments. our major credit lines in the united states and germany expire in june 2015 and june 2014, respectively. in the past, market disruptions experienced in the united states and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. these disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. if we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. we also may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options could cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2012, we had 51,359,247 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 2,789,752 shares subject to outstanding options. we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option plans and our employee stock ownership plan. in addition, all of the unregistered shares of our common stock are now eligible for sale under rule 144 or rule 701 under the securities act. as these shares are issued, they may be freely sold in the public market subject, in the case of any awards under our stock-based compensation plans, to applicable vesting requirements. we currently have the ability to file a registration statement and immediately offer and sell common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt and convertible securities because of our current status a well-known seasoned issuer. in the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other securities convertible into our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under any future registration statement that we may file could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and three trusts he created collectively control approximately 35% of our voting power and have a significant influence on the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change in corporate control. dr. valentin p. gapontsev, our chairman and chief executive officer, and ip fibre devices (uk) ltd. (ipfd), of which dr. gapontsev is the managing director, together with three trusts he created beneficially own approximately 35% of our common stock. trustees of the trusts are officers or employees of the company. 32 table of contents dr. gapontsev and the trusts have a significant influence on the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: election of our directors; amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. dr. gapontsev and the trusts may vote their shares of our common stock in ways that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our common stock. these significant ownership interests could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including certain provisions that will take effect when dr. valentin p. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own an aggregate of 25% or more of our outstanding voting securities, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. the existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions include: authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock; establishing a classified board; providing that directors may only be removed for cause; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; limiting the persons who may call a special meeting of stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote; and supermajority stockholder approval to change these provisions. provisions of delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. specifically, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which will apply to our company following such time as dr. gapontsev (together with his affiliates and associates) ceases to beneficially own 25% or more of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, may prohibit business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. if securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. if one or more of these analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of business, which consists primarily of interest rate risk associated with our cash and cash equivalents and our debt and foreign exchange rate risk. interest rate risk. our investments have limited exposure to market risk. to minimize this risk, we maintain a portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting primarily of bank deposits, money market funds and short-term government funds. the interest rates are variable and fluctuate with current market conditions. because of the short-term nature of these instruments, a sudden change in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. our exposure to market risk also relates to the increase or decrease in the amount of interest expense we must pay on our bank debt and borrowings on our bank credit facilities. the interest rate on our existing bank debt is effectively fixed except for our u.s. revolving line of credit. the rates on our euro overdraft facilities in germany and italy and our japanese yen overdraft facility are fixed for twelve-month periods. approximately 63% of our outstanding debt had a fixed rate of interest as of december 31, 2012. we do not believe that a 10% change in market interest rates would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. exchange rates. due to our international operations, a significant portion of our net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese yuan and the russian ruble. as a result, our international operations give rise to transactional market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the u.s. dollar, the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese yuan and the russian ruble. losses and gains on foreign exchange transactions totaled a $1.4 million loss in 2012 and a $2.9 million gain in 2011. management believes that the use of foreign currency financial instruments reduces the risks of certain foreign currency transactions; however, these instruments provide only limited protection. we will continue to analyze our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations and may engage in additional financial hedging techniques in the future to attempt to minimize the effect of these potential fluctuations. exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results in the future. no foreign currency derivative instruments were outstanding at december 31, 2012.