risk factors related to our business dependence on supply of components, equipment, and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. raw materials. perpendicular recording technology requires recording media with more layers and the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys in the sputtering process required to create such layers. as a result, products utilizing perpendicular recording technology are more sensitive to fluctuations in prices and availability of 8 table of contents precious metals and scarce alloys such as platinum and ruthenium. as our product offerings have transitioned to perpendicular recording technology, we have increased inventory of these precious metals and scarce alloys and may continue to be required to increase inventory over time. printed circuit boards. we assemble and test a significant portion of the printed circuit boards used in our disc drives. printed circuit boards are the boards that contain the electronic circuitry and asics that provide the electronic controls of the disc drive and on which the head-disc assembly is mounted. we assemble printed circuit boards at our facilities in malaysia and china. spindle motors. we participate in the design of many of our spindle motors and purchase them principally from outside vendors in asia, whom we have licensed to use our intellectual property and technology. asics. we participate in the design of many of the asics used in our disc drives for motor and actuator control, such as interface controllers, read/write channels and pre-amplifiers. we do not manufacture any asics but, rather, buy them from third-party suppliers. disc drive assembly. following the production of the individual components of the disc drive, the first step in the manufacture of a disc drive itself is the assembly of the actuator arm, read/write heads, discs and spindle motor in a housing to form the head-disc assembly. the production of the head-disc assembly involves largely automated processes. printed circuit boards are then mated to the head-disc assembly and the completed unit is tested prior to packaging and shipment. disc drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china, singapore and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, and in the united states, in california and minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various asian countries, including china, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan, thailand and vietnam, in europe and the united states. products we offer a broad range of disc drive products for the enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and branded solutions markets of the disc drive industry. we now produce perpendicular recording technology based products for all major markets described below, with products shipping for revenue in all major markets in fiscal year 2007. currently, the majority of our disc drive unit shipments are perpendicular recording technology based products. in addition, we have recently announced our intention to introduce ssd products for select markets in the future. we offer more than one product within each product family, and differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and form factor, the dimensions of the disc drive, capacity, or interface. historically, our industry has been characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contributed to rapid product life cycles. we list below our main current product offerings. enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disc drives ships in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 400gb. commercial uses for cheetah disc drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. savvio, our 2.5-inch enterprise disc drives, first introduced in fiscal year 2004, designed to enable space optimization, maximized performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 146gb. this disc drive is our first enterprise disc drive in the smaller 2.5-inch form factor and, as such, allows the installation of more disc drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disc drives. we are currently shipping our 2nd generation savvio disc drive which utilizes perpendicular recording technology with increased throughput and improved power consumption, allowing improved space optimized enterprise storage systems. barracuda es sata family. our barracuda es 3.5-inch disc drives using perpendicular recording technology ships in 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 250gb to 750gb. the barracuda es 9 table of contents addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use of business critical storage systems for capacity-intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. in june 2007, we announced storage capacities of up to 1 tb for this drive. mobile computing momentus ata/sata family. the momentus family of disc drives for mobile computing disc drive products, ships in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 30gb to 160gb. commercial uses for momentus disc drives include notebook computers running popular office applications and notebook computers for business, government and education environments. consumer uses for momentus disc drives include notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio applications. we have started to ship three new products for the mobile compute market, all utilizing perpendicular recording technology, including the momentus 5400 psd, a 2.5-inch notebook hybrid drive that combines rotating disc storage with flash memory for greater power efficiency, faster boot-ups and increased reliability; the momentus 5400.2 fde, the industry only 2.5-inch encrypting disc drive that delivers the highest levels of protection for data on lost, stolen or retired notebooks; and the momentus 7200.2, a 7,200 rpm disc drive for high-performance notebooks. ld25.2 family. our ld25.2 series 2.5-inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40gb and 80gb at 5,400 rpm, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook computers. desktop storage barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disc drive is in its 11th generation and delivers storage capacities of up to 1tb at 7,200 rpm and is used in applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. the majority of our desktop storage products currently utilize perpendicular recording technology. additionally, we are currently shipping a 3.5-inch disc drive with 250gb of capacity on a single disc which utilizes 2nd generation perpendicular recording technology. diamondmax family. our diamondmax 3.5-inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of up to 500gb at 7,200 rpm. diamondmax drives are targeted at entry-level and mainstream pcs with non-traditional ata applications that require a value solution with solid performance. ld25.2 family. our ld25.2 series 2.5-inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40gb and 80gb at 5,400 rpm. consumer electronics storage barracuda ata/sata family. we also sell some of our 3.5-inch barracuda disc drives for use in dvr s, audio jukeboxes, home media centers and home and industrial security systems. our db35 series disc drive, with storage capacities up to 750gb, uses perpendicular recording technology to help set-top box manufacturers optimize performance for leading-edge digital entertainment. momentus ata/sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 7,200 and 5,400 rpm momentus disc drives, including our recently announced ld25 series of momentus family of disc drives with capacities ranging from 20gb up to 160gb, for use in low-profile dvr s, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. we also offer our 2.5-inch ee25 series of momentus disc drives which is designed for the temperature, vibration, humidity and other environmental extremes of automotive, marine and aircraft applications, delivering storage capacities of up to 80gb. seagate st18 series. our seagate st18 series disc drives uses seagate perpendicular recording technology to deliver 60gb on a single platter in a compact 1.8-inch disc drive designed for use in portable media players, global positioning systems (gps), digital video camcorders and ultra-mobile pcs. branded solutions our branded solutions business, which was expanded with the acquisition and integration of the retail and branded sales operations of maxtor and the related right to use the maxtor brand and other related trade names such as onetouch , provides storage products including various home and office storage appliances and applications. 10 table of contents during fiscal year 2007, we launched our freeagent product line of external backup storage and we also currently ship the maxtor onetouch tm product line of external backup storage, with both these product lines utilizing our 3.5-inch barracuda and 2.5-inch momentus disc drives with capacities up to 750gb. customers we sell our disc drive products primarily to major oems and distributors. oem customers incorporate our disc drives into computer systems and storage systems for resale. distributors typically sell our disc drives to small oems, dealers, system integrators and other resellers. shipments to oems were approximately 64%, 72% and 72% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. shipments to distributors were approximately 30%, 25% and 26% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. sales to hp accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, while sales to dell, as a percentage of our disc drive revenue, were 9%, 11% and 12% in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. no other customer accounted for 10% or more of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal year 2007 as a percentage of our disc drive revenue increased to 6% from 3% and 2% in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 12 to 36 months, although our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond this period. these master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the redistribution of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled based on a weekly confirmation by the distributor of its requirements for that week. the agreements typically provide the distributors with price protection with respect to their inventory of our disc drives at the time of a reduction by us in our selling price for the disc drives and also provide limited rights to return the product. we have significantly increased our sales of branded storage products to retail customers in the last two years with the maxtor acquisition further expanding our retail customer base. retail sales typically require higher marketing support, sales incentives and longer price protection periods. we also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. these agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customer against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. sales, marketing and customer service our marketing organization works to increase demand for our disc drive products through strategic collaboration with key oem customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to build our brand and end-customer relationships. as customer and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have recently organized our marketing organization with groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. we believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. the worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of oems and distributors throughout most of the world. the worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among north america, japan, asia-pacific (excluding japan) and 11 table of contents europe, africa and the middle east. in addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers product requirements. our sales force works directly with our marketing organization to coordinate our oem and distribution channel relationships. we maintain sales offices throughout the united states and in australia, china, france, germany, japan, singapore, taiwan and the united kingdom. with the acquisition of maxtor, we acquired the right to the use the maxtor and other related brand names. we believe the maxtor brand is a valuable asset, and we intend to continue to offer the maxtor brand of products to consumers globally to broaden our reach into and coverage of these channels as well as optimize the impact of our marketing investments. our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. we generally warrant our products for periods ranging from one year to five years. foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the office of export administration of the u.s. department of commerce and other u.s. governmental agencies. competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive, with disc drive manufacturers not only competing for a limited number of major disc drive customers, but also increasingly competing with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity; price per unit and price per gigabyte; storage/retrieval access times; data transfer rates; product quality and reliability; production volume capability; form factor; responsiveness to customer preferences and demands; warranty; and brand. we believe that our disc drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal disc drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. principal disc drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include independent disc drive manufacturers such as western digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as fujitsu, samsung, hitachi, and toshiba. because they produce complete computer systems and other non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, these captive manufacturers can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which reduces their need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in their computer systems and allows them to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, hitachi (together with affiliated entities), toshiba and samsung, each are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disc drives and ssds into its product offerings. not only may they be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio allows them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other. they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. in connection with our branded storage products, in addition to competing with our disc drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as lacie s.a. that purchase disc drives for use in their branded storage products from us and our competitors. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, which have substantially replaced disc drives in lower capacity handheld devices. principal competitors include samsung, hitachi, micron and sandisk. 12 table of contents price erosion. our industry has been characterized by continuous price erosion for disc drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets (i.e., like-for-like products ). price erosion for like-for-like products is more pronounced during periods of: industry consolidation in which competitors aggressively use discounted price to gain market share; few newer product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand which may cause excess supply. disc drive manufacturers typically attempt to off-set price erosion with an improved mix of disc drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we expect that price erosion in our industry will continue for the foreseeable future. to remain competitive, it will be necessary to continue to reduce our prices, as well as introduce new product offerings with increased disc drive capacities and/or improved feature sets, utilizing advanced technologies prior to our competitors to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structure on these new products. we have established production facilities in china, malaysia, singapore and thailand to achieve cost reductions. product life cycles and changing technology. historically, competition and changing customer preference and demand in the electronic data storage industry have shortened product life cycles and caused acceleration in the development and introduction of new technology. we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and reliability which meet changing user needs and which successfully anticipate or respond to changes in technology and standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. introduction of any technology that delivers storage at an attractive price, or has other features not available to disc drives, will be disruptive to the disc drive industry. product life cycles are also being shortened with the increasing capabilities of flash and ssd. for example, our 1-inch disc drive life cycle was shortened when it was replaced by flash memory in smaller capacity handheld consumer electronics applications. seasonality the disc drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is higher during the second half of the calendar year when it budget calendars typically provide for more spending. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies and products and evaluating alternative storage technologies, including flash storage technology. we have increased our focus on research and development and realigned our disc drive development process. this structured product process is designed to bring new products to market in a high volume environment and with quality attributes that our customers expect. our research group, which is based in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, is dedicated to the transition and extending the capacity of perpendicular recording technology as well as exploring alternative data storage technologies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disc drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had product development expenses of $904 million, $805 million and $645 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 9% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. 13 table of contents patents and licenses as of june 29, 2007, we had approximately 3,857 u.s. patents and 761 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,287 u.s. and 651 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the information storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, the protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are generally more important than patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. nevertheless, we believe that patents are valuable to our business and intend to continue our efforts to obtain patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the information storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the information storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 3. legal proceedings. the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been and may be substantial regardless of the merit of the claim or the outcome. we have patent cross-licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we are engaged in negotiations with other major disc drive companies and component manufacturers with respect to ongoing patent cross-licenses. backlog in view of customers rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disc drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. employees at june 29, 2007, we employed approximately 54,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 43,000 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. environmental matters our operations are subject to comprehensive u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits. we incur operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the u.s. federal superfund law and similar state statutes, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. at each of these sites, the government has assigned to us a 14 table of contents portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. some of our current and former sites have a history of commercial and industrial operations, including the use of hazardous substances. groundwater and soil contamination resulting from historical operations has been identified at several of our current and former facilities and we are addressing the cleanup of these sites in cooperation with the relevant government agencies. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006 as well as the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including disc drives, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan. we will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 10, 2007. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. william d. watkins chief executive officer and director age 54 mr. watkins has been chief executive officer since 2004, and a director of seagate since 2000. prior to that, he was president and chief executive officer from 2004 to 2006; president and chief operating officer from 2000 to 2004; executive vice president and chief operating officer from 1998 to 2000; and executive vice president, recording media operations from 1996 to 1998. david a. wickersham president and chief operating officer age 51 mr. wickersham has been president since 2006 and chief operating officer since 2004. prior to that, he was chief operating officer and executive vice president from 2004 to 2006; executive vice president, global disc storage operations from 2000 to 2004, senior vice president, worldwide product line management from 1999 to 2000; and senior vice president, worldwide materials from 1998 to 1999. charles c. pope executive vice president and chief financial officer age 52 mr. pope has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since 1999. from 1998 to 1999 he was senior vice president and chief financial officer. prior to that, he was senior vice president finance, storage products from 1997 to 1998; vice president finance, storage products from 1996 to 1997; vice president/general manager, media from 1994 to 1996; vice president finance and treasurer from 1991 to 1994; and vice president, finance far east operations from 1989 to 1991. brian s. dexheimer executive vice president and chief sales marketing officer age 44 mr. dexheimer has been executive vice president and chief sales marketing officer since 2006. prior to that he was executive vice president, storage business and worldwide sales, marketing and customer service from 2005 to 2006; executive vice president, worldwide sales, marketing and customer service from 2000 to 2005; senior vice president, worldwide sales from 1999 to 2000; senior vice president, personal storage group/product line management from 1998 to 1999; vice president, and general manager, removable storage solutions from 1997 to 1998. todd a. abbott executive vice present, sales, marketing and customer service age 48 mr. abbott has been executive vice president, sales, marketing and customer service since 2007. prior to joining seagate, he was senior vice president of worldwide sales for symbol technologies from 2002 to 2006; group vice president in the sales organization for cisco systems from 2001 to 2002; and held other senior positions in the sales organization at cisco from 1994 to 2001. william l. hudson executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary age 55 mr. hudson has been executive vice president since november 2002, and general counsel and corporate secretary since january 2000. prior to that he was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from january 2000 to november 2002. 15 table of contents robert whitmore executive vice president and chief technical officer age 45 mr. whitmore has been executive vice president product and process development and chief technical officer since 2007. prior to that he was executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. jaroslaw s. glembocki senior vice president, recording heads and media operations age 51 mr. glembocki has been senior vice president, recording heads and media operations since 2000. prior to that he was senior vice president/general manager, recording media group, from 1997 to 2000; and vice president, engineering and cto media from 1996 to 1997. w. david mosley senior vice president, global disc storage operations age 41 mr. mosley has been senior vice president, global disc storage operations since 2007. prior to that, he was vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. patrick j. o malley senior vice president, finance, principal accounting officer and treasurer age 45 mr. o malley has been senior vice president, finance since october 2005, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director of finance/ manager, corporate financial planning analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. glen a. peterson senior vice president, worldwide finance age 45 mr. peterson has been senior vice president, worldwide finance since january 2004. prior to that, he was vice president, finance and treasurer from 1998 to 2004; and director, strategic planning from 1995 to 1998. financial information financial information for the company reportable business segments and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 6, business segment and geographic information. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street n.w., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because the company makes filings to the sec electronically, you may access this information at the sec internet site: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our internet web site address is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investor relations portion of this web site, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. corporate information we were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. even during periods when demand is stable, the disc drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe this basic industry condition of continuing price erosion and market share variability will continue, as our competitors engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand. as a result, the pricing environment in 2007 continued to be very competitive, especially in the march and june 2007 quarters in the mobile compute market and the market for high capacity 3.5-inch ata disc drives, and we expect pricing to remain competitive for the remainder of fiscal year 2008 as our competitors continue these efforts. to the extent that historical price erosion patterns continue, product life cycles may lengthen, our competitors may have more time to enter the market for a particular product and we may be unable to offset these factors with new product introductions at higher average prices. a second general industry trend that may contribute to increased average price erosion is the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our result of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in the notebook and small form factor enterprise markets. our market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings, which are competitive with our recently introduced new products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disc drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disc drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disc drive manufacturers and large captive manufacturers such as: independent captive western digital corporation fujitsu limited gs magicstor inc. hitachi global storage technologies samsung electronics incorporated toshiba corporation the term independent in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disc drives as a stand-alone product, and the term captive refers to disc drive manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disc drives or other information storage products. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. because components other than disc drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disc drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in a computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. in addition, samsung and 17 table of contents hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. this may improve their ability to compete with us. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disc drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in addition, in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disc drives, manufacturers of disc drives have had to develop large, in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of large production facilities and industry consolidation can contribute to the intensification of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disc drives or other information storage products. we have also experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives in handheld applications. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications like personal media players, these competitors have recently announced ssd products for notebook and enterprise compute applications. some of these companies, like samsung, also sell disc drives. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our shares prices to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period. we expect this fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including: competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in the introduction of our new products, particularly new disc drives with lower cost structures due to inability to achieve high production yields, delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we may engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disc drives, due to seasonality and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly, as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disc drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly at times such as the present time when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in supply/demand imbalances; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and other major regions in which we do business; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; and announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our operating 18 table of contents results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disc drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. we are particularly depending on the successful introduction, qualification and volume sales of new lower cost products for our results in the next few quarters. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. smaller form factor disc drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disc drives, our business may suffer. the disc drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disc drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronics devices, but also including personal computers and enterprise storage applications. much of our recent revenue growth is derived from the sale of drives for small form factor drives for notebook and enterprise applications. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives in handheld applications. this competition has largely replaced disc drive products smaller than 1.8-inch with flash memory. however, we believe that disc drives continue to be well suited in applications requiring capacities of 20 gigabytes or more and that the demand for additional storage to store, hold or back up related media content from such handheld devices using flash memory, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications like digital music players and personal media players, these competitors are also attempting to introduce ssd products for notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disc drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if flash competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for notebook and enterprise compute applications, customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase which would adversely affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents perpendicular recording technology if products based on this technology suffer unanticipated or atypical reliability or operability problems, our operating results will be adversely impacted. in addition, products based on perpendicular technology require increased quantities of precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium which increases risk of higher costs and production delays that could adversely impact our operating results. in fiscal year 2007, we converted more than half of our products to products using perpendicular technology and we expect that by the end of fiscal year 2008 that all of our products will be based on perpendicular technology. perpendicular recording technology poses various technological challenges including a complex integration of the recording head, the disc, recording channel and drive firmware as a system. if these perpendicular technology based products suffer unanticipated or atypical failures that were not anticipated in the design of those products, our service and warranty costs may materially increase which would adversely impact our operating results. perpendicular recording technology also requires recording media with more layers and the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. these precious metals and scarce alloys have recently become increasingly expensive and at times difficult to acquire. as our product offerings shift increasingly to perpendicular technology, we will be exposed to increased risks that higher costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and scarce alloys could adversely impact our operating results. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during our fourth fiscal quarter. because sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for disc drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during our fourth fiscal quarter than the rest of the year. in the desktop computer, notebook computer and consumer electronics sectors of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to our customers increased sales of personal computers and consumer electronics during the winter holiday season. in the enterprise sector of our business, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. because our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our operating results will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the consumer electronics market. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disc drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter production. because we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disc drive products (particularly now that there are no material limitations on disc drive 20 table of contents component supply for our competitors), and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in notebook and enterprise applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its disc drive products, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disc drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disc drives in the market, a condition that is exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers and shifting trends in demand which can create supply demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our major manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, singapore and thailand; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. dependence on sales of disc drives in consumer electronics applications our sales of disc drives for consumer electronics applications which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. our sales of disc drives for consumer electronics applications have contributed significant revenues to our results for the past several years. the growth rate in consumer electronics products has recently begun to moderate and show more seasonal demand variability. the demand for consumer electronics products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for consumer electronics applications are uniquely configured for a single customer applications, which creates a risk of exposure if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory, meeting the customers cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disc drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on supply of components, equipment, and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and availability of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disc drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disc drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of 21 table of contents these components, including recording media and aluminum and glass substrates that we do not manufacture, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. recently, substantially all of our purchases of recording media and a significant portion of our aluminum substrates from third-party suppliers have been sourced from komag, which is in the process of being acquired by western digital. there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain alternative supply following the purchase of komag by western digital. in the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials, such as precious metals like platinum and ruthenium, that were in short supply in the industry in general. historically, the technology sector specifically, and the economy generally have experienced economic pressure, which has resulted in consolidation among component manufacturers and may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner, or at all. importance of reducing operating costs if we do not reduce our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time reducing operating expenses. in the past, these activities have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. moreover, the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. in addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our oem customers. we cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. industry demand changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems has caused and may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disc drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. in a weak economy, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems generally cause sharp declines in demand for disc drive products. 22 table of contents additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disc drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disc drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of desktop disc drive products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. to the extent that distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel, and to the extent that our distributor relationships are terminated, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. importance of time-to-market our operating results may depend on our being among the first-to-market and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disc drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our operating results have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. our market share and operating results in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems competitors. moreover, we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may have become less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. accounting charges and pre-acquisition contingencies not previously identified related to acquisition of maxtor we expect the acquisition of maxtor with seagate will continue to result in additional accounting charges, that may continue to have an adverse effect on our fiscal year 2008 operating results. we expect that, as a result of the acquisition of maxtor, our fiscal year 2008 results of operations will continue to be adversely affected by non-cash accounting charges, the most significant of which relates to the amortization of acquired intangible assets. in addition, pre-acquisition contingencies not previously identified will adversely affect our results of operations. 23 table of contents dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hp, dell, sony corporation ( sony ), emc and ibm, account for a large portion of our disc drive revenue. our recent acquisition of maxtor may increase our business with certain of our larger customers. we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, however, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disc drives may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disc, may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like commercial desktop compute. as a result, our customers storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disc drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in information storage products future changes in the nature of information storage products may reduce demand for traditional disc drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, may not contain a disc drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disc drives for new applications, it is too early to assess the impact of these new applications on future demand for disc drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical storage and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our operating results will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disc drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had product development expenses of $904 million, $805 million and $645 million, respectively. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our operating results may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disc drive manufacturers. 24 table of contents risks associated with future acquisitions we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliance, acquisition or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, and making acquisitions of or investments in, other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition and investment candidates. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates. even if we were able to identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. our ability to finance potential acquisitions will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in acquiring other companies, these acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our operating results, particularly while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by acquisition involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models, such as our recent acquisition of evault, will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional common shares in connection with future acquisitions. for example, in may 2006, we issued approximately 97 million of our common shares in connection with our acquisition of maxtor corporation. issuing shares in connection with acquisitions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the united states and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims brought by convolve, inc. and the massachusetts institute of technology in the united states, shao tong in nanjing, china and siemens ag and stormedia texas llc in the united states which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products; which could adversely effect our results of operations and financial condition. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. moreover, patent litigation 25 table of contents has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. dependence on key personnel the loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; our interest expense could increase if prevailing interest rates increase, because a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at floating rates; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. 26 table of contents our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that resulted from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. in addition, our existing debt instruments permit us to incur a significant amount of additional debt. if we incur additional debt above the levels now in effect, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by our existing credit facility may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. our existing credit facility imposes, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. our existing credit facility may also limit, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our shares; redeem or repurchase shares; make investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell shares of restricted subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; create liens; and effect a consolidation or merger. these covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, including exceptions that permit us to make significant dividends. our credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of any of the covenants described above or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our credit facility. if a default occurs, the administrative agent of the credit facility may elect to declare all of our outstanding obligations under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we do not 27 table of contents have a contingency plan for addressing the kinds of events referred to in this paragraph that would be sufficient to prevent system failures and other interruptions in our operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our desktop disc drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. 28 table of contents political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in afghanistan and iraq and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. sox 404 compliance while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 29, 2007, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations. volatile public markets the price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; and the sale of our common shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. 29 table of contents failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our common shareholders could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. we paid quarterly dividends aggregating $0.38 per share on september 1, 2006, november 17, 2006, february 16, 2007 and may 18, 2007 to our common shareholders of record as of august 18, 2006, november 3, 2006, february 2, 2007 and may 4, 2007, respectively. on july 19, 2007, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share that was paid by august 17, 2007 to our common shareholders of record as of august 3, 2007. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disc drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings, and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. our payment of dividends to holders of our common shares may in certain future quarters result in upward adjustments to the conversion rate of the 2.375% convertible senior notes due 2012. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares. recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. for example, the eligibility for favorable tax treatment of taxable distributions paid to u.s. shareholders of seagate as qualified dividends could be eliminated. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disc drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio or to hedge debt. as stated in our investment policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining portfolio investments in diversified, high-quality investment grade securities with limited time to maturity. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. we have both fixed and variable rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. at june 29, 2007, we had $23 million in marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than twelve months. the unrealized loss on these marketable securities was immaterial. the table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 29, 2007. all investments mature in three years or less. included in long term debt for fiscal year 2008, is the principal amount of $326 million related to our 2.375% notes which is payable upon the conversion of the 2.375% notes, which are currently convertible as the company share price was in excess of 110% of the conversion price for at least 20 consecutive trading days during the last 30 trading days of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. unless earlier converted, the 2.375% notes must be redeemed in august 2012. 55 table of contents fair value fiscal year fiscal year fiscal year fiscal year fiscal year june 29, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total 2007 (in millions) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 862 $ 862 $ 862 average interest rate 5.27 % 5.27 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 130 $ 27 $ 157 $ 156 average interest rate 4.29 % 4.95 % 4.40 % total investment securities $ 992 $ 27 $ 1,019 $ 1,018 average interest rate 5.14 % 4.95 % 5.14 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 330 $ 5 $ 142 $ 5 $ 630 $ 600 $ 1,712 $ 1,810 average interest rate 2.43 % 5.75 % 6.76 % 5.75 % 6.35 % 6.8 % 5.78 % variable rate $ 30 $ 330 $ 360 $ 360 average interest rate 5.81 % 6.19 % 6.16 % foreign currency exchange risk. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in countries where we have a manufacturing presence. we have established a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from operating and capital expenditures over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the forward contracts. these forward foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities of up to twelve months. additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward contracts to hedge the capital expense costs associated with a new manufacturing facility under construction in malaysia. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (expense) on the statement of operations. we did not have any net gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense) for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. as of june 29, 2007, our notional fair values of foreign exchange forward contracts totaled $148 million. we do not believe that these derivatives present significant credit risks, because the counterparties to the derivatives consist of major financial institutions, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. we do not enter derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the table below provides information as of june 29, 2007 about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. average estimated notional contract fair amount rate value (in millions, except average contract rate) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 23 34.58 $ singapore dollar 86 1.52 malaysian ringgit 39 3.48 $ 148 $ 56 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 or section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, each as amended). certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "may," "are expected to," "will," "will continue," "should," "would be," "seeks" or "anticipates" or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. these forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: the decline in global economic conditions as customers have, and may continue to, defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news; the impact of the variable demand and the pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities. these risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k as anticipated, believed or expected. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are the world's leading provider of hard disk drives based on revenue. we design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives. hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives or hard drives, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters or disks with magnetic surfaces. the performance attributes of disk drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities have resulted in disk drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data in systems ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer electronics devices to data centers delivering electronic data over corporate networks and the internet. we produce a broad range of disk drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are used in enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; desktop applications, where our products are used in desktop computers; mobile computing applications, where our products are used in notebook computers; and consumer electronics applications, where our products are used in a wide variety of devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs) and other consumer electronic devices that require storage. we also sell our branded storage solutions under both the seagate and maxtor brands. in addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, tape storage, as well as semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as tdk corporation ("tdk"), fuji electric device technology company, limited ("fuji"), and showa denko k.k. ("showa"), which supply heads and media to disk drive manufacturers; lsi corporation ("lsi") and marvell technology group limited ("marvell"), which supply application specific integrated circuits (asics); as well as hoya corporation ("hoya"), which supplies glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers such as seagate, western digital corporation ("western digital"), samsung electronics company, limited ("samsung"), fujitsu limited ("fujitsu"), hitachi global storage technologies ("hitachi") and toshiba corporation ("toshiba"); magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as quantum corporation ("quantum"); and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as samsung, sandisk corporation ("sandisk"), stec, inc. ("stec"), and intel corporation ("intel"), whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (ssds). system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into end-user, consumer electronics or enterprise applications include original equipment manufacturers (oems) such as hewlett-packard company ("hp"), dell inc. ("dell"), acer inc. ("acer"), lenovo group limited ("lenovo") and apple, inc. ("apple"); consumer electronics oems such as apple, sony coproration ("sony"), microsoft corporation ("microsoft"), motorola, inc. ("motorola"), directv group, inc. ("directv"), tivo inc. ("tivo") and scientific-atlanta inc., a subsidiary of cisco systems inc. ("scientific-atlanta"); enterprise storage system oems such as hp, emc 4 table of contents corporation ("emc") and netapp, inc. ("net app"); and distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications. storage services. an emerging area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. demand for electronic data storage the electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on compute applications. we believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of non-compute applications in the consumer electronics (ce) market such as digital video recorders, gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, including digital photos, video, movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings by companies such as youtube by google inc. ("google"), flickr by yahoo! inc. ("yahoo"), itunes by apple, myspace by news corporation ("news corp.") and facebook; network infrastructure , including broadband, cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through dvrs, handheld applications, gaming consoles and in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions. we believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. additionally, increasing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored has necessitated additional storage. demand for disk drives the disk drive industry is sensitive to global macroeconomic conditions and has been impacted by the downturn in economic activity. notwithstanding current economic conditions, we believe that growth in digital content will continue to require increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, back up and use such content. we believe this growth in digital content will result in increased demand for disk drive products. historically, the electronic data storage industry has introduced alternative technologies that directly compete with hard disk drives. ssds, using nand flash memory, are a potential alternative to disk drives in certain applications such as consumer handheld devices and portable external storage. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional compute markets that require high volume storage solutions as well as the data intensive non-compute markets will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industry's ability to deliver reliable and cost effective mass storage devices. disk drives for desktop computing. the desktop computing market consists of disk drives used in traditional desktop and business critical applications. we believe the demand for disk drives for desktop computing may be adversely impacted as consumers increasingly choose notebooks for their computing 5 table of contents needs. we believe that current growth opportunities for disk drives in traditional desktop computing applications lie primarily in developing markets where price remains a primary consideration. higher capacity disk drives used in business critical applications are used to store less time-critical, but capacity-intensive data. business critical electronic data, which historically has been stored on tape or other backup and archival technologies, are now being stored on high capacity disk drives because of decreases in cost per gigabyte. disk drives for mobile computing. the mobile compute market consists primarily of disk drives used in notebook systems. notebook systems are increasingly becoming the preference over desktop computers for both consumers and enterprises as the need for mobility increases, wireless adoption continues to advance, and price and performance continue to improve. ssds could become more competitive in the future in compute applications which require minimal storage capacity such as netbooks, which are smaller, less powerful, less expensive, forms of mobile computers, and are slowly becoming a low-cost alternative to notebooks. disk drives for enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as disk drives used in mission critical applications which are defined by the use of high performance, high capacity disk drives in applications that are vital to the operation of enterprises. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to be driven by enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks. in addition, as enterprises move away from the use of server-attached storage to network-attached storage and consolidate data centers to increase speed and reliability within a smaller space, reduce network complexity and increase energy savings, this will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor disk drives. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. ssd storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. in addition, enterprises are considering the use of ssds in applications where rapid processing is required. the timing of significant adoption of ssds in these applications is currently unknown as enterprises weigh the cost benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives relative to the perceived performance benefits of ssds. disk drives for consumer electronics. although flash memory solutions are contained in numerous consumer electronic devices, disk drives in this market are primarily used in applications such as gaming and dvrs that require a higher capacity, more cost-effective storage solution. we believe the demand for disk drives in ce will be driven by increased amounts of high definition content requiring larger amounts of storage capacity. disk drives for branded solutions. we define branded solutions as external disk drives sold in the retail channel. disk drives used in branded solutions are for purposes such as personal backup, portable data storage and to augment the consumer's current desktop or notebook disk drive capacities. we believe the proliferation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for external branded storage solutions. our branded solutions disk drives are accounted for within our mobile and desktop compute markets. disk drive technology overview the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads 6 table of contents and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drive performance disk drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates (arr). areal density areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we expect the long-term demand for increased disk drive capacities will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media-rich content. in particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue to increase in size, with high definition video content being an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. we believe that demand will further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of content. we have been pursuing and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. in addition, we continue to invest in next generation storage technologies like solid state. manufacturing disk drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the design and manufacture of the technology used in their products, and by whether they are captive, producing disk drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disk drives as a stand-alone product. vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. in contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third-party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. this can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the 7 table of contents technology investment decisions of their suppliers. independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive advantage over captive manufacturers in working with oems because they do not compete with oems for computer system sales. we believe the competitive dynamics of the disk drive industry favor integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. we pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability, and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. however, a vertically integrated model tends to have less flexibility when there is a constraint in demand, which then exposes us to higher unit costs. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the required investments in capital equipment and research and development, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers have merged with other companies or exited the industry. the global macroeconomic environment as well as the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large-scale operations may continue to drive future industry consolidation. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. components and raw materials all of our disk drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. from time to time we use third party read/write heads for use in our products. media. the extent of our use of externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile and small form factor ce products. 8 table of contents printed circuit boards. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata), small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. the disks, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. each disk consists of a substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass deposited with layers of thin-film magnetic material. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly which is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china, singapore and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, and in the united states, in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various asian countries, including china, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan, thailand and vietnam, in europe and the united states. suppliers of components and capital equipment. due to industry consolidation, there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. generally, we believe that there is more than adequate supply of components to meet currently identified industry demand. however, we believe that the supply of glass substrates, a component in mobile disk drives, may be below adequate levels to support demand for mobile drives. this supply constraint may be particularly pronounced if global macroeconomic conditions improve in the near term or if the shift in demand from desktop compute to mobile compute accelerates. drive manufacturers have adjusted their capital spending plans in reaction to the reduction in demand. as a result, capital equipment manufacturers may be increasingly financially constrained and, therefore, may be less able to supply equipment when needed. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, that are subject to fluctuations in prices, and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in order to mitigate susceptibility to these conditions, we may maintain increased inventory of precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. we believe that currently there is adequate supply of these precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. additionally, 9 table of contents volatility in fuel costs may increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight, therefore, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. industry supply balance. from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalances between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally more benign. products we offer a broad range of disk drive products for the enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and branded solutions market applications of the disk drive industry. in addition, we intend to introduce ssd products for select market applications in the future and anticipate that our enterprise ssd product will be available for customer qualification by the end of calendar year 2009. we offer more than one product within each product family, and differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and form factor, the dimensions of the disk drive, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contributes to rapid product life cycles. we list below our main current product offerings. enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 600gb. commercial uses for cheetah disk drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. savvio, our 2.5-inch enterprise disk drives designed to enable space optimization, maximized performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 300gb. this disk drive allows the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disk drives. we are currently shipping our 2nd generation savvio disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. barracuda es sata family. our barracuda es 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 250gb to 1tb. the barracuda es addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use of business critical storage systems for capacity-intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. we have also introduced 7,200 rpm drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250gb to 1tb. mobile computing momentus ata/sata family. our momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products, ships in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 80gb to 500gb. commercial uses for momentus disk drives include notebook computers running popular office applications and notebook computers for business, government and education environments. consumer uses for momentus disk drives include notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio applications. our momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 rpm disk drive for high-performance notebooks. 10 table of contents desktop storage barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disk drive delivers storage capacities of up to 2tb at 7,200 rpm and is used in applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. diamondmax family. our diamondmax 3.5-inch disk drives deliver storage capacities of up to 1tb at 7,200 rpm and are targeted at pcs, non-traditional ata and external storage applications. consumer electronics storage pipeline hd and db35 sata family. we also sell some of our 3.5-inch pipeline hd and db35 disk drives for use mainly in dvr's. these disk drives are optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment. db35 ranges from 80 to 250gb and pipeline hd ranges from 160gb to 1tb. pipeline mini sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 5,400 rpm pipeline mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 80gb up to 500gb, for use in low-profile dvr's, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. ld25.2 family. our ld25.2 series 2.5-inch disk drives deliver storage capacities of 40gb and 80gb at 5,400 rpm, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook computers. branded solutions our branded solutions business provides storage products including various home and office storage applications. we ship external backup storage solutions under our free agent and maxtor onetouch product lines. both of these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 2tb and 500gb, respectively. customers we sell our disk drives primarily to major original equipment manufacturers (oems). we also sell to distributors and retailers under our globally recognized brand names. we have longstanding relationships with many of our oem customers, including hp, dell, emc, international business machines corporation ("ibm") and lenovo. the following table summarizes our disk drive revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended july 3, 2009 june 27, 2008 june 29, 2007 revenues by channel (%) oem 64 % 67 % 64 % distributors 27 % 26 % 30 % retailers 9 % 7 % 6 % revenues by geography (%) north america 28 % 30 % 30 % europe 27 % 27 % 27 % far east 45 % 43 % 43 % oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 6 to 24 months, however they are generally cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice. our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond the term of the agreement. these master agreements typically do not commit the 11 table of contents customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our branded storage product is sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. we have increased our sales and market penetration of branded storage products to retail customers over the last two years further expanding our retail customer base. we also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. these agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customers against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. the only customer exceeding 10% of our disk drive revenue for all of fiscal years 2007 through 2009 was hp, accounting for approximately 16% of our disk drive revenue in each year. dell exceeded 10% of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009 and 2008. sales to dell accounted for approximately 11%, 11% and 9% of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we have master purchase agreements in place with hp and dell that are cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice, and do not require either customer to purchase any minimum or other specified quantity of our products. no other customer accounted for 10% or more of our disk drive revenue in fiscal years 2009, 2008 or 2007. see "item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." sales, marketing, product line management and customer service our product line management (plm) organization works to increase demand for our disk drive products through strategic collaboration with key oem customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to build our brand and end-customer relationships. as customers and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have marketing groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. we believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. the worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of oems and distributors throughout most of the world. the worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among americas, japan, asia-pacific (excluding japan) and europe, africa and the middle east. in addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers' product requirements. our sales force works directly with our product line management and marketing organizations to coordinate our oem and distribution channel relationships. we maintain sales offices throughout the united states and in australia, china, france, germany, india, japan, taiwan and the united kingdom. 12 table of contents our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. we generally warrant our products for periods ranging from one to five years. foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the office of export administration of the u.s. department of commerce and other u.s. governmental agencies. competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. we believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal disk drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. principal disk drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include independent disk drive manufacturers such as western digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as fujitsu, hitachi, samsung and toshiba. because these captive manufacturers produce complete computer systems and other non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, they can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which may reduce their need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in their computer systems and may allow them to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, competitors such as samsung and toshiba, are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disk drives and ssds into their product offerings. not only may they be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio may allow them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other as they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. in connection with our branded storage products, in addition to competing with our disk drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as iomega corporation (an emc company) and lacie s.a. that purchase disk drives from us and our competitors for use in their branded storage products. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds. in the flash memory market, primarily used in lower capacity handheld devices, the principal competitors include micron technology, inc. ("micron"), samsung, sandisk and toshiba. in enterprise applications where ssds are used for rapid processing and high volume transactions, our principal competitors include hitachi and stec. 13 table of contents price erosion our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand, which may cause excess supply. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we expect price erosion in our industry will continue. to remain competitive, we believe it is necessary for industry participants to continue to introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of the competition in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structures on these new products. product life cycles and changing technology. our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. as a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products, allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated the need to quickly achieve product cost effectiveness. changing technology also necessitates the need for on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely 14 table of contents availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had product development expenses of approximately $953 million, $1,028 million and $904 million, respectively, which represented 10%, 8%, and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of july 3, 2009, we had approximately 4,035 u.s. patents and 660 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,265 u.s. and 532 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business, in addition to patent protection, in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to protect broadly our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8, note 13, legal, environmental, and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been and may be substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to licenses. backlog in view of our customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. 15 table of contents some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law and its state equivalents), can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we were identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ("rohs"), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006 as well as the waste electrical and electronic equipment ("weee") directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including disk drives, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at july 3, 2009, we employed approximately 47,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 38,650 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 12, business segment and geographic information." corporate information we were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended ("1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, you may access this information at the sec's internet site: www.sec.gov . 16 table of contents this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our internet web site address is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investor relations" portion of this web site, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 17, 2009. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 52 chairman, president and chief executive officer patrick j. o'malley 47 executive vice president and chief financial officer robert w. whitmore 47 executive vice president and chief technology officer william d. mosley 42 executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management d. kurt richarz 48 executive vice president, sales terence cunningham 50 senior vice president, branded solutions and i365 douglas dehaan 51 senior vice president, operations and materials kenneth m. massaroni 48 senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary david z. anderson 44 vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. mr. luczo, 52, has served as president and ceo since january 2009, and continues to serve as chairman of the board. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc. and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors. he was appointed chairman of the board in 2002. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 3, 2004, but has retained his position as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he joined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. patrick j. o'malley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. o'malley, 47, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 25, 2008. previously, he served as senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director/manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. robert w. whitmore, executive vice president and chief technology officer. mr. whitmore, 47, has been executive vice president product and process development and chief technology officer since 2007. prior to that he was executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, 17 table of contents product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. william d. mosley, executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management. mr. mosley, 42, has served as executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management since february 2009. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, global disk storage operations since 2007; vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. d. kurt richarz, executive vice president, sales. mr. richarz, 48, joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor. he has served as our executive vice president, sales since may 2008. prior to that he was executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since from may 2006 to may 2008; vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007 and senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008. at maxtor, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. terence cunningham, senior vice president, branded solutions and i365. mr. cunningham, 50, joined seagate in february 2009, as senior vice president, branded solutions and i365, our services organizations. mr. cunningham served as the ceo of coral8, a software company from 2003 until 2009, president and ceo of infogenesis, a hospitality focused software company from 2005 to 2006, and as management advisor and investor of rockbridge consulting from 1999 to 2003. prior to that, he served as president and coo of veritas software, and founded and led seagate software. he is a member of the board of directors of qad, inc., and several private companies. douglas dehaan, senior vice president, operations and materials. mr. dehaan, 51, has been senior vice president, operations and materials since february 2009. previously, he served as senior vice president of quality from 2008 to 2009, senior vice president of product and process development, core products from 2003 to 2008, senior vice president process development and product launch from 2001 to 2003, vice president, seagate factory of the future initiative from 1999 to 2001, vice president, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1996 to 1999, vice president, singapore operations from 1994 to 1996, and senior director, manufacturing engineering/twin cities operations from 1992 to 1994. kenneth m. massaroni, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. mr. massaroni, 48, has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since april 2008. he served as vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008, and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta from 1997 to 2006. in addition, mr. massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion devices from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. david z. anderson, vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer. mr. anderson, 44, joined seagate in 1995, and has served as our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since august 2008. prior to that, he was vice president, finance, storage markets from 2007 to 2008. he previously held positions as vice president, finance, asia operations from 2005 to 2007 and senior director, corporate accounting, compliance and external reporting and corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 2003 to 2005. prior to 2003, mr. anderson held a variety of progressively senior management positions within our finance organization. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business current macroeconomic conditions the recent downturn in the macroeconomic environment has, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. the disruption in global macroeconomic conditions has had a significant impact on the disk drive industry as a whole and the results of our operations. due to the uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions, we believe our customers have postponed, and may continue to postpone, spending in response to tighter credit, increasing level of unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, the capital and credit markets continue to experience some measure of volatility and disruption, resulting in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and reduces stability in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays and the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. the disk drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the pricing environment in the june 2009 quarter moderated, with price erosion returning to historical rates. however, we believe price erosion and market share variability will continue, as our competitors engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to shift customer demand to offset lower demand due to the deterioration in business and economic conditions. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. this risk is particularly pronounced in markets where we have recently experienced lower market share, as is the case in the market for 2.5-inch ata products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when product life cycles for particular products are extended, allowing competitors more time to enter the market. the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in small form factor enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are 19 table of contents competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disk drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disk drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disk drive manufacturers, and large captive manufacturers. the term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disk drives as a stand-alone product, such as western digital corporation, and the term "captive" in this context refers to manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other electronic data storage products, such as fujitsu limited, hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics incorporated and toshiba corporation. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. as components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disk drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. samsung and hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. one of our captive manufacturer competitors, toshiba corporation recently announced that it will buy fujitsu limited's hard disk drive business in order to increase market share, cut costs and improve their ability to compete in the market. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disk drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disk drives, manufacturers of disk drives have had to develop large, and in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of these large production facilities combined with industry consolidation can further increase the intensity of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disk drives or other electronic data storage products. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, lower power consumption and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have recently announced solid state drives (ssds) for notebook and enterprise compute applications. some of these companies, like samsung, also sell disk drives. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are evaluating and adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. 20 table of contents volatility of quarterly results our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to the global recession, negative financial news, and the continuing instability of several large financial institutions; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and other major regions in which we do business, as economic activity continued to deteriorate during fiscal year 2009; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components, especially in light of recent consolidation among component suppliers, building inflationary pressure and the relative volatility of the u.s. dollar as compared to other currencies; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disk drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disk drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; and announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disk drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have 21 table of contents quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. smaller form factor disk drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disk drives, our business may suffer. the disk drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disk drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronic devices, but also in personal computers and enterprise storage applications. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce smaller form factor drives at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disk drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disk drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disk drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the mobile compute, desktop compute and consumer electronics market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of personal computers, laptop computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which 22 table of contents this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the consumer electronics market, as well as macro-economic conditions. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disk drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. another factor that may negatively affect our ability to recapture costs of investments in future quarters is the recent decline in global macroeconomic conditions. the decline in economic and political conditions in many of our markets has had and may continue to have an effect on demand for our products and render budgeting and forecasting difficult. the difficulty in forecasting demand increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially during periods when the u.s. dollar is relatively volatile as compared to other currencies; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market, a condition that is exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; 23 table of contents limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. dependence on supply of components, equipment and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and availability of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disk drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disk drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components, including media, aluminum and glass substrates that we do not manufacture, recording media and heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the recent increases in demand for small form factor mobile products have led to shortages in glass substrates, a component used in smaller form factor disk drives to make the recording media for such drives. if our vendors for glass substrates are unable to meet our demand, or are unable to invest sufficient capital to expand capacity to meet the industry's increasing unit growth in small form factor mobile disk drives, we could experience a shortage in the supply of this critical component, which could limit our ability to meet our customer's demand for small form disk drives. in the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. 24 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. importance of time-to-market our results of operations may depend on our being among the first-to-market with new product offerings and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disk drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems' competitors. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. industry demand poor global economic conditions and changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems have caused and may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disk drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. during times of poor global economic conditions, such as those that currently prevail, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. moreover, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disk drive products. the decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disk drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disk drive manufacturers than usual. 25 table of contents dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of desktop disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, the recent deterioration in business and economic conditions may exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. dependence on sales of disk drives in consumer electronics applications our sales of disk drives for consumer electronics applications, which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. sales of disk drives for consumer electronics applications have contributed significant revenues to our results. consumer spending on consumer electronics has however, and may continue to, deteriorate significantly in many countries and regions, including the united states, due to the poor global economic conditions and increasing levels of unemployment. for example, factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending on consumer electronic products include volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the demand for consumer electronics products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for consumer electronics applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fuelling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on such retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue 26 table of contents to do so if the poor global economic conditions continue and levels of unemployment continue to increase. for example, factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending on such retail sales of our branded solutions include volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. in addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our oem customers. we cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. impairment charges we may be required to record additional impairment charges for goodwill and/or other long-lived assets. we are required to assess goodwill annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. we are also required to test other long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, equipment and leasehold improvements, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. in the fiscal quarter ended january 2, 2009, we determined that the negative impact of the current macroeconomic environment and the resulting decline in the demand for our products represented an adverse change in our business climate. those circumstances required us to undertake an evaluation of our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment. based on these analyses, we recorded impairment charges of $2.3 billion for goodwill and $3 million for other long-lived assets. as of july 3, 2009, we have approximately $31 million of goodwill and $2.3 billion of other long-lived assets. as part of our long-term strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other companies or assets which could potentially increase our goodwill and other long-lived assets. further adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in additional impairment charges to these assets. if our goodwill or other long-lived assets were to become further impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 27 table of contents dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard company ("hp"), dell inc. ("dell"), emc corporation ("emc"), lenovo group limited ("lenovo") and acer inc. ("acer"), account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like commercial desktop compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disk drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, netbooks or mobile phones with advanced capabilities, or "smartphones", may not contain a disk drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disk drives for these new applications, it is too early to assess the impact of these new applications on future demand for disk drive products. products such as netbooks and smartphones, some of which use alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical storage and other storage technologies, are becoming increasingly common and could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these 28 table of contents products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. we also recently completed a private offering of $430 million of 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 (the "10% notes"). our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in addition, because a portion of our debt bears interest at floating rates, an increase in interest rates has an immediate effect on our interest expense. if the extreme volatility in interest rates observed during the fiscal year 2009 continues, or if interest rates increase, our cash flow and our ability to service our debt may be adversely affected. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. 29 table of contents our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures; product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our amended credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% notes limit the use of certain proceeds from any disposition of assets that are part of the collateral and, as a result, we may not be allowed, under those documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by our amended credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. our amended credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% notes impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. our amended credit facility and the indenture limit, among other things, our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred stock; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; redeem or repurchase capital stock or debt; make certain investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage to any material extent in business other than our current business; and effect a consolidation or merger. these limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, including exceptions under our amended credit facility that permit us to pay dividends up to $45 million, in the aggregate, during the period beginning on april 4, 2009 and ending on january 1, 2010 (inclusive), and $300 million, in the aggregate, during any period of four consecutive quarters thereafter. our amended credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial covenants. specifically, our amended credit facility contains three financial covenants: (1) a covenant to maintain minimum cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; (2) a fixed charge coverage ratio; and (3) a net leverage ratio. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our 30 table of contents control. our recently amended credit agreement governing our credit facility provides for the relaxation of certain financial covenants through the quarter ending on january 1, 2010, and, based on our current outlook, we expect to stay in compliance with these covenants. however, after january 1, 2010, the financial metrics we are required to maintain under these covenants will revert back to their previous levels. if our business deteriorates or if business conditions worsen, we may need to further re-negotiate these covenants, obtain waivers and/or raise additional funds in order to remain in compliance. a breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including our inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under our amended credit facility. if a condition of default occurs, and we are not able to obtain a waiver from the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under our amended credit facility, the administrative agent of the amended credit facility may, and at the request of lenders holding a majority of the commitments shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the amended credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, and may terminate the lenders' commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and, if we cannot repay our outstanding obligation, institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. if our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. we could also be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. in addition, some of the agreements governing our other debt instruments contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered by a default under our amended credit facility. in the event that we default under our amended credit facility, there could be an event of default under cross-default provisions for the applicable debt instrument. as a result, all outstanding obligations under certain of our debt instruments, including our 10% notes, may become immediately due and payable. if such acceleration were to occur, we may not have adequate funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure certain indebtedness since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support, and if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under certain of our existing debt obligations, the lenders thereunder could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. substantially all our assets and the assets of our material subsidiaries organized in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore, as well as certain assets located in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore owned by other material subsidiaries, and all proceeds therefrom, are pledged as security for borrowings under our amended credit facility and our 10% notes, as well as obligations under our hedging agreements, cash management arrangements and certain metal leasing arrangements. since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we have a limited amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support. as a result, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support for our existing indebtedness. in addition, our failure to comply with the terms of our amended credit facility or the indenture governing our 10% notes would entitle the lenders thereunder to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to meet these payment obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all our assets that serve as collateral. volatile public markets the price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline 31 table of contents significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our common shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. purchase commitments to certain suppliers if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. perpendicular recording technology products based on perpendicular technology require increased quantities of precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium, which increase the risks of higher costs and production delays that could adversely impact our results of operations. perpendicular recording technology requires recording media with more layers, which requires the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. these precious metals and scarce alloys could become increasingly expensive and, at times, difficult to acquire. accordingly, we will be exposed to the increased risk that higher costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and scarce alloys could adversely impact our results of operations. risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations 32 table of contents successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facility and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional common shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition: actions brought in the united states by convolve, inc. and the massachusetts institute of technology; qimonda ag; and siemens ag, which seagate won at trial and is now on appeal,; and an action brought in northern ireland by siemens ag. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the 33 table of contents necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see part ii, item 8, note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. dependence on key personnel the loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. while we continue to improve our disaster recovery processes, system failures and other interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our desktop disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local 34 table of contents currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h1n1 (or the "swine flu" virus), may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest, with thailand being a recent example. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in afghanistan and iraq and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and 35 table of contents protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. sox 404 compliance while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. annually we complete an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 3, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations. suspension of paying quarterly dividends our policy of not paying dividends could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares. on april 13, 2009, we announced that we had adopted a policy of no longer paying a quarterly dividend to our common shareholders to enhance liquidity. our policy of not paying a quarterly dividend could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares. our ability to pay quarterly dividends in the future will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disk drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by our amended credit facility. specifically, under the terms and conditions of our recently amended credit agreement governing our credit facility, we are restricted from paying dividends in excess of $45 million, in the aggregate, during the period beginning on april 4, 2009 and ending on january 1, 2010 (inclusive), and in excess of $300 million, in the aggregate, during any period of four consecutive quarters thereafter. in addition, payment of dividends to holders of our common shares in certain future quarters may result in upward adjustments to the conversion rate of the 2.375% convertible senior notes due august 2012. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares. recent u.s. federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 36 table of contents current global credit and financial market conditions current global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. as of july 3, 2009, we held auction rate securities with a par value of $21 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. in february 2009 we sold auction rate securities with a par value of $10 million for $8 million, recognizing a $2 million loss on the transaction. in addition, in february 2009 the ratings of two of the three remaining auction rate securities held by us, having an aggregate par value of $21 million, were downgraded. as of july 3, 2009, the estimated fair value of the remaining auction rate securities was $18 million. we believe that the impairments of these securities, totaling $3 million as of july 3, 2009, are temporary given our ability and intent to hold these securities until liquidity returns to this market or until maturity of the securities. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments or auction rate securities since july 3, 2009, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. for example, the european union has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the focus of such legislation, we will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted and that our suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which would also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our credit facility. at july 3, 2009, we had no marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months and determined that no investments were other-than-temporarily impaired. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our accounts receivable balances, our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for both our accounts receivable balances and our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of july 3, 2009, we had counterparty credit exposure of $1.4 million comprised of the mark-to-market valuation related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts in a gain position. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we have exposure to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our non-qualified deferred compensation (nqdc) plan. in the quarter ended july 3, 2009, we entered into a total return swap (trs) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the nqdc plan liabilities. we pay a floating rate, based on libor plus a 69 table of contents spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the nqdc plan liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. the contract term of the trs is one year and is settled on a monthly basis therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. the terms of the trs required us to pledge initial collateral of $18 million to the counterparty for the term of the contract. additional collateral may be posted contingent on the counterparty's exposure to the market value of the trs. as of july 3, 2009, we had pledged the initial $18 million to the counterparty and recorded the cash pledged as restricted cash. during fiscal year 2009, we sold auction rate securities with a par value of $10 million. as of july 3, 2009, we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $21 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of july 3, 2009, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $18 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $3 million are temporary given our ability and intent to hold these securities until liquidity returns to this market or until maturity of these securities. as such, the impairment was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and these securities were classified as long-term investments. we have both fixed and variable rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 3, 2009. all short-term investments mature in three years or less. long-term debt due in fiscal year 2013 includes the principal amount of $326 million related to our 2.375% notes, which may be payable earlier if converted. effective october 4, 2008, the 2.375% notes became nonconvertible and were reclassified to long-term debt. as of july 3, 2009, the 2.375% notes remained non-convertible as our shares traded below 110% of the conversion price for at least 20 consecutive trading days of the last 30 trading days of the quarter. in addition, the payments of dividends to holders of our common shares have in certain quarters resulted in upward adjustments to the conversion rate of the 2.375% notes. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value at july 3, 2009 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 1,281 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,281 $ 1,281 average interest rate 0.30 % 0.30 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 84 $ 27 $ 2 $ $ $ $ 113 $ 114 average interest rate 3.03 % 4.64 % 5.00 % 3.45 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 21 $ 21 $ 18 average interest rate 0.22 % 0.22 % total investment securities $ 1,365 $ 27 $ 2 $ $ $ 21 $ 1,415 $ 1,413 average interest rate 0.47 % 4.64 % 5.00 % 0.22 % 0.55 % debt fixed rate $ 121 $ 5 $ 630 $ 326 $ 430 $ 600 $ 2,112 $ 2,010 average interest rate 6.76 % 5.75 % 6.35 % 2.38 % 10.00 % 6.80 % 6.63 % variable rate $ 650 $ $ $ $ $ $ 650 $ 649 average interest rate 2.73 % 2.73 % foreign currency exchange risk. we monitor our foreign currency exposures regularly to ensure the effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. we recognize all of our derivative financial 70 table of contents instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts, on the balance sheet as either assets or liabilities and these derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments, foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during the fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in countries where we have a manufacturing presence. we have established a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from operating and capital expenditures over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the forward contracts. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities of up to 12 months. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, we initially record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in other comprehensive income (loss), and the ineffective portion is reported in earnings. amounts in other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (expense) on the statement of operations. we did not have any net gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense) for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2009, nor did we discontinue any material cash flow hedges for a forecasted transaction in fiscal year 2009. the table below provides information as of july 3, 2009 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: singapore dollar $ 27 1.46 thai baht 168 34.21 1 czech koruna 8 19.53 total $ 203 $ 1 (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. 71 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 or section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, each as amended). certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "may," "are expected to," "will," "will continue," "should," "would be," "seeks" or "anticipates" or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. these forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: uncertainty in global economic conditions as customers may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news; the impact of the variable demand and the pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities. these risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k as anticipated, believed or expected. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are the world's leading provider of hard disk drives based on revenue. we design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives. hard disk drives commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. the performance attributes of disk drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities have resulted in disk drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data. we produce a broad range of disk drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. in addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, tape storage and semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as fuji electric device technology co., ltd., showa denko k.k. and tdk corporation, which supply heads and media to disk drive manufacturers; lsi corporation and marvell technology group limited, which supply application specific integrated circuits (asics); and hoya corporation, which supplies glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers such as seagate, hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics co., ltd., toshiba corporation and western digital corporation; magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as quantum corporation; and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as intel corporation, micron technology, samsung electronics co., ltd., sandisk corporation and stec, inc., whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (ssds). system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications. client compute original equipment manufacturers (oems) include acer inc., apple inc., dell inc., hewlett-packard company and lenovo group limited; client non-compute oems include apple inc., directv group, inc., microsoft corporation, motorola, inc., scientific-atlanta inc., a subsidiary of cisco systems inc., sony corporation and tivo inc.; and enterprise storage system oems include emc corporation, hewlett-packard company and netapp, inc. distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. storage services. another area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. 4 table of contents demand for electronic data storage the electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on client compute applications. we believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of client non-compute applications such as digital video recorders, gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings by companies such as youtube by google inc., hulu llc by the national broadcasting company and fox broadcasting company (a news corporation company), itunes by apple inc., myspace by news corporation and facebook; network infrastructure , including broadband, cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through dvrs, handheld devices and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions. we believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. other factors driving demand for additional storage include: continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost-effective methods of processing and storing data, increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate; increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives; changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the healthcare industry; and growth in data captured in computer to computer communications, or "dark data", which does not require human interaction. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, back up and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. however, the disk drive industry is sensitive to global macroeconomic conditions as experienced in fiscal year 2009. historically, the electronic data storage industry has introduced alternative technologies that directly compete with hard disk drives. ssds, using nand flash memory, are a potential alternative to disk drives in certain applications such as consumer handheld devices and portable external storage. nand flash memory is a type of non-volatile storage technology that does not require power to retain data. however, we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to 5 table of contents be best served by hard disk drives based on the industry's ability to deliver reliable, power consumption efficient and cost effective mass storage devices. disk drives for enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as disk drives designed for mission critical applications and nearline applications. mission critical applications are defined as applications that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance, and high reliability disk drives. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to be driven by enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. we believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor disk drives. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as applications that are less time-critical but capacity-intensive, such as reference data environments or redundancy for recovery purposes, which require high capacity and low power consumption disk drives featuring lower costs per gigabyte. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for disk drives designed with these attributes as data centers expand and proliferate. ssd storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. in addition, enterprises are beginning to use ssds in applications where rapid processing and/or lower power consumption is required. the timing of significant adoption of ssds is dependent on enterprises weighing the pricing and other benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of ssds. disk drives for client compute. we define client compute applications as disk drives designed for the traditional desktop and mobile compute applications. in the near-term, we believe that demand growth in client compute applications will be driven by what we believe to be an accelerating corporate technology refresh cycle. in the long-term, we believe that the proliferation of digital content will drive the demand for the client compute market. as the proliferation of client compute applications that require minimal storage such as tablets and netbooks continues, nand flash technology could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future. disk drives for client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage (nas). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs that require a higher capacity, lower cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment the consumer's current desktop, notebook or dvr disk drive capacities. client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. we believe the proliferation of high definition and media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. disk drive technology overview the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads 6 table of contents and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drive performance disk drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates. areal density areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we expect the long-term demand for increased disk drive capacities will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media-rich content. in particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue to increase in size, with high definition video content being an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. we believe that demand will further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of content. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing disk drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the design and manufacture of the technology used in their products and by whether they are captive, producing disk drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disk drives as a stand-alone product. vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. in contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third-party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. this can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the technology investment decisions of their suppliers. independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive 7 table of contents advantage over captive manufacturers in working with oems because they do not compete with oems for computer system sales. we believe the competitive dynamics of the disk drive industry favor vertically integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. we pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates because it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. the trend toward consolidation is more pronounced during times of macroeconomic contraction. for example, toshiba corporation acquired fujitsu limited's hard disk drive business in october 2009. the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large-scale operations may also drive future industry consolidation. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. components and raw materials all of our disk drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. 8 table of contents media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. the disks, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. each disk consists of a substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass deposited with layers of thin-film magnetic material. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china, singapore and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various asian countries, including china, japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan, thailand and vietnam, in europe and in the united states. suppliers of components and industry constraints. due to industry consolidation, there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. we believe the supply chain was generally tight for the industry during most of fiscal year 2010. availability of glass substrates, finished media and heads improved during the june 2010 quarter. however, supply of these critical components is still expected to be generally tight for the second half of the 2010 calendar year, reflecting typical seasonal patterns. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. we believe that currently there is an adequate supply of these precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. additionally, volatility in fuel costs may increase our costs 9 table of contents related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. industry supply balance from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. for the first half of fiscal year 2010, our industry experienced unmet demand due to industry-wide supply constraints, while in the march 2010 quarter supply and demand were relatively balanced. however, in the june 2010 quarter, industry supply exceeded demand, which we believe reflected a return to seasonal patterns typical of a june quarter. products we offer a broad range of disk drive products for the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute market applications. we offer more than one product within each product family and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 600gb. commercial uses for cheetah disk drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. we are currently shipping our fourth generation savvio 2.5-inch enterprise disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. our savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 600gb. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. barracuda es sata family. our barracuda es 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 250gb to 2tb. the barracuda es addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage using nearline storage systems for capacity-intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. we have also introduced barracuda es drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250gb to 1tb. constellation es sata family. our constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch and in storage capacities of up to 500gb to 2tb, respectively, at 7,200 rpm. the constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity density, enterprise reliability, low power consumption and optional security. client compute momentus ata/sata family. our momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 80gb to 640gb. momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. consumer uses for momentus disk drives also include tablet computers and digital audio applications. our momentus 10 table of contents 7200.4 is a 7,200 rpm disk drive for high-performance notebooks. in addition, we began shipping our new hybrid drive into the notebook market with the introduction of our momentus xt product line in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and nand flash storage. the benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to ssds alone. barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disk drive delivers storage capacities of up to 2tb at 7,200 rpm and is designed for applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. client non-compute pipeline hd and db35 sata family. we sell our 3.5-inch pipeline hd and db35 disk drives primarily for use in dvrs. these disk drives are optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment and range from 160gb to 1tb. pipeline mini sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 5,400 rpm pipeline mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160gb up to 500gb, for use in low-profile dvrs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. we ship external backup storage solutions under our free agent go and free agent go flex product lines. both of these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 2tb and 750gb, respectively. customers we sell our disk drives primarily to major oems. we also sell to distributors and retailers under our globally recognized brand names. we have longstanding relationships with many of our oem customers, such as hewlett-packard company, dell inc. and emc corporation. the following table summarizes our disk drive revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended july 2, 2010 july 3, 2009 june 27, 2008 revenues by channel (%) oem 71 % 64 % 67 % distributors 21 % 27 % 26 % retail 8 % 9 % 7 % revenues by geography (%) americas 26 % 28 % 30 % emea 22 % 27 % 27 % asia pacific 52 % 45 % 43 % oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 6 to 24 months; however they are generally cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice. our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond the term of the agreement. these master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. 11 table of contents our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. the only customers exceeding 10% of our consolidated revenue for fiscal years 2008 through 2010 were hewlett-packard company and dell inc., accounting for approximately 16% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue in each year. we have master purchase agreements in place with hewlett-packard company and dell inc. that are cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice, and do not require either customer to purchase any minimum or other specified quantity of our products. see "item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. we believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal disk drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. principal disk drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include independent disk drive manufacturers such as western digital corporation, as well as large captive manufacturers such as hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics co., ltd. and toshiba corporation. because these captive manufacturers produce complete computer systems and other non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, they can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which may reduce their need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in their computer systems and may allow them to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, competitors such as samsung electronics co., ltd. and toshiba corporation are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disk drives and ssds into their product offerings. not only may they be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio may allow them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other as they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. in addition to competing with our disk drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as iomega corporation (an emc company) and lacie s.a. that purchase disk drives from us and our competitors for use in their branded storage products. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds. in the flash memory market, primarily used in lower 12 table of contents capacity handheld devices, our principal competitors include micron technology, inc., samsung electronics co., ltd., sandisk corporation and toshiba corporation. in enterprise applications, where ssds are used for rapid processing and high volume transactions, our principal ssd competitors include hitachi global storage technologies, intel corporation and stec inc., with others expected to enter in the near future. price erosion. our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand, which may cause excess supply. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we expect price erosion in our industry to continue. to remain competitive, we believe it is necessary for industry participants to continue to introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of the competition in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structures on these new products. product life cycles and changing technology. our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. as a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products, allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. for most of fiscal year 2010, our industry observed a muted seasonal pattern as the hard disk drive industry experienced unmet demand due to industry-wide supply constraints, while in the march 2010 quarter supply and demand were relatively balanced. however, in the june 2010 quarter, industry supply exceeded demand, which we believe reflected a return to seasonal patterns typical of a june quarter. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. our research and development focus is designed to bring 13 table of contents new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had product development expenses of approximately $877 million, $953 million and $1,028 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 10% and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of july 2, 2010, we had 4,149 u.s. patents and 625 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,232 u.s. and 478 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13, legal, environmental, and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. backlog in view of our customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. 14 table of contents we have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at july 2, 2010, we employed approximately 52,600 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 45,000 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 12, business segment and geographic information." corporate information we were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. on july 3, 2010, we consummated our previously announced reorganization pursuant to which seagate technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland, became the publicly traded parent of the seagate corporate family. 15 table of contents available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, you may access this information at the sec's internet site: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our internet web site address is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investor relations" portion of our web site, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 13, 2010. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 53 chairman, president and chief executive officer patrick j. o'malley 48 executive vice president and chief financial officer robert w. whitmore 48 executive vice president and chief technology officer william d. mosley 43 executive vice president, sales and marketing d. kurt richarz 49 executive vice president, sales terence r. cunningham 51 senior vice president, i365 douglas dehaan 52 senior vice president, operations and materials kenneth m. massaroni 49 senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary david h. morton jr. 38 vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. mr. luczo, 53, has served as president and ceo since january 2009, and continues to serve as chairman of the board. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc. and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors. he was appointed chairman of the board in 2002. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 3, 2004, but retained his position as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he joined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. patrick j. o'malley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. o'malley, 48, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 16 table of contents 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director/manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. robert w. whitmore, executive vice president and chief technology officer. mr. whitmore, 48, has been executive vice president and chief technology officer since 2007. prior to that he was executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. william d. mosley, executive vice president, sales and marketing. mr. mosley, 43, has served as executive vice president, sales and marketing since september 2009. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009, senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. d. kurt richarz, executive vice president, sales. mr. richarz, 49, joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor corporation. he has served as our executive vice president, sales since may 2008. prior to that he was executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since from may 2006 to may 2008; senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008, and vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007. at maxtor corporation, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. terence r. cunningham, senior vice president, i365. mr. cunningham, 51, has served as our senior vice president of i365 since october 2009. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, branded solutions and i365, from when he joined seagate in march 2009 until september 2009. mr. cunningham served as the ceo of coral8, inc., a software company from 2003 until 2009, president and ceo of infogenesis, a hospitality focused software company from 2005 to 2006, and as management advisor and investor of rockbridge consulting, inc. from 1999 to 2003. prior to that, he served as president and coo of veritas software corporation, and founded and led seagate software, inc. he is a member of the board of directors of qad, inc., and several private companies. douglas dehaan, senior vice president, operations and materials. mr. dehaan, 52, has been senior vice president, operations and materials since february 2009. previously, he served as senior vice president of quality from 2008 to 2009, senior vice president, enterprise product development from december 2006 to april 2008, senior vice president of product and process development, core products from 2003 to 2006, senior vice president process development and product launch from 2001 to 2003, vice president, seagate factory of the future initiative from 1999 to 2001, vice president, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1996 to 1999, vice president, singapore operations from 1994 to 1996, and senior director, manufacturing engineering/twin cities operations from 1992 to 1994. kenneth m. massaroni, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. mr. massaroni, 49, has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since april 2008. he served as vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008, and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. in addition, mr. massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola inc. from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems, inc. 17 table of contents from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion devices inc. from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. david h. morton jr., vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer. mr. morton, 38, joined seagate in 1995 and has served as our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since october 2009. prior to that, he served as our vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. prior to june 2004, mr. morton held a variety of progressively senior management positions within our finance organization. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business current macroeconomic conditions the recent downturn in the macroeconomic environment has, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. the recent downturn in global macroeconomic conditions, particularly in europe, has had a significant effect on the disk drive industry as a whole and the results of our operations. due to the on-going uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, increasing level of unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, the capital and credit markets continue to experience some measure of volatility and disruption, resulting in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and reduced stability in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays and the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. the disk drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the pricing environment in the first nine months of our 2010 fiscal year was relatively stable owing in part to a favorable supply/demand balance, though in the june 2010 quarter price erosion returned to seasonal patterns typical of a june quarter. we believe price erosion and market share variability will continue, as the industry engages in aggressive pricing actions targeted to shift customer demand to offset lower demand due to the deterioration in business and economic conditions. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. this risk is particularly pronounced in markets where we have recently experienced lower market share, as is the case in the market for 2.5-inch ata products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when product life cycles for particular products are extended, allowing competitors more time to enter the market. the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter 19 table of contents the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disk drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disk drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disk drive manufacturers, and large captive manufacturers. the term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disk drives as a stand-alone product, such as western digital corporation, and the term "captive" in this context refers to manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other electronic data storage products, such as hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics incorporated and toshiba corporation. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. as components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disk drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. samsung and hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disk drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disk drives, manufacturers of disk drives have had to develop large, and in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of these large production facilities combined with industry consolidation can further increase the intensity of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disk drives or other electronic data storage products. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, lower power consumption and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications. some of these companies, like samsung, also sell disk drives. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are evaluating and may adopt ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. 20 table of contents volatility of quarterly results our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business, for example europe in the june 2010 quarter; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components, especially in light of recent consolidation among component suppliers, building inflationary pressure and the relative volatility of the u.s. dollar as compared to other currencies; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disk drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disk drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; and announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disk drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design 21 table of contents of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. smaller form factor disk drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disk drives, our business may suffer. the disk drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disk drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronic devices, but also in personal computers and enterprise storage applications. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce smaller form factor drives at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disk drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disk drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disk drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions 22 table of contents and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macro-economic conditions. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disk drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in netbook, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially during periods when the u.s. dollar is relatively volatile as compared to other currencies; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market, a condition that is exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. 23 table of contents dependence on supply of components, equipment and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disk drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disk drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the recent increases in demand for small form factor mobile products have led to shortages in glass substrates, a component used in smaller form factor disk drives to make the recording media for such drives. if our vendors for glass substrates are unable to meet our demand, or are unable to invest sufficient capital to expand capacity to meet the industry's increasing unit growth in small form factor mobile disk drives, we could experience a shortage in the supply of this critical component, which could limit our ability to meet our customer's demand for smaller form factor disk drives. in the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. 24 table of contents importance of time-to-market our results of operations may depend on our being among the first-to-market with new product offerings and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disk drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems' competitors. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. industry demand poor global economic conditions and changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disk drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. during times of poor global economic conditions, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. moreover, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disk drive products. the decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disk drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disk drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that 25 table of contents are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. dependence on sales of disk drives in client non-compute applications our sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications, which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications have contributed significant revenues to our results. consumer spending on client non-compute has however, and may continue to, deteriorate significantly in many countries and regions, including the united states, due to poor global economic conditions and increasing levels of unemployment. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fuelling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded 26 table of contents solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. in addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our oem customers. we cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. impairment charges we may be required to record additional impairment charges for other long-lived assets. we are required to test other long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, equipment and leasehold improvements, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in impairment charges to our long lived assets. if our long-lived assets were to become further impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard company, dell inc. and emc corporation, account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of contents changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disk drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, ipad-like tablet computing devices, netbooks or mobile phones with advanced capabilities, or "smartphones", may not contain a disk drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disk drives for these new applications, it is too early to assess the impact of these new applications on future demand for disk drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical storage and other storage technologies, are becoming increasingly common and could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; 28 table of contents our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures; product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 (the "10% notes") impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. the indenture limits, among other things, our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred stock; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; redeem or repurchase capital stock or debt; 29 table of contents make certain investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage to any material extent in business other than our current business; and effect a consolidation or merger. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure certain indebtedness since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support, and if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under certain of our existing debt obligations, the lenders thereunder could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. substantially all our assets and the assets of our significant subsidiaries organized in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore, as well as certain assets located in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore owned by other significant subsidiaries, and all proceeds therefrom, are pledged as security for borrowings under our 10% notes, as well as obligations under our hedging agreements, cash management arrangements and certain metal leasing arrangements. since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we have a limited amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support. as a result, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support for our existing indebtedness. in addition, our failure to comply with the terms of the indenture governing our 10% notes would entitle the lenders thereunder to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to meet these payment obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all our assets that serve as collateral. volatile public markets the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. 30 table of contents purchase commitments to certain suppliers if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. perpendicular recording technology products based on perpendicular technology require increased quantities of precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium, which increase the risks of higher costs and production delays that could adversely impact our results of operations. perpendicular recording technology requires recording media with more layers, which requires the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. these precious metals and scarce alloys could become increasingly expensive and, at times, difficult to acquire. accordingly, we will be exposed to the increased risk that higher costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and scarce alloys could adversely impact our results of operations. risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to 31 table of contents that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition: actions brought in the united states by convolve, inc. and the massachusetts institute of technology and by qimonda ag; and an action brought in northern ireland by siemens ag. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13, legal, environmental, and other contingencies of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. while we continue to improve our disaster recovery processes, system failures and other interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 table of contents economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. 33 table of contents global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest, with thailand being a recent example. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in afghanistan and iraq and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. sox 404 compliance while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. annually we complete an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 2, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations. dependence on key personnel the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. 34 table of contents suspension of paying quarterly dividends our policy of not paying dividends could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. on april 13, 2009, we announced that we had adopted a policy of no longer paying a quarterly dividend to our ordinary shareholders to enhance liquidity. our policy of not paying a quarterly dividend could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. our ability to pay quarterly dividends in the future will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disk drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our ordinary shareholders. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our ordinary shares. recent u.s. federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. current global credit and financial market conditions current global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. as of july 2, 2010, we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $19 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of july 2, 2010, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $17 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $2 million are temporary as we do not intend to sell these securities and have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of the amortized cost basis. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments or auction rate securities since july 2, 2010, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. 35 table of contents environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. for example, the eu has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the focus of such legislation, we will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted and that our suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which would also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. at july 2, 2010, with the exception of our auction rate securities, we had no marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months and determined that no investments were other-than-temporarily impaired. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 2, 2010. all short-term investments mature in three years or less. included in short-term debt for fiscal year 2011 is the principal amount of $326 million related to our 2.375% notes and $33 million related to our 5.75% debentures. on june 25, 2010, we called for the redemption of the remaining notes for both the 2.375% notes and the 5.75% debentures. these notes were retired in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. 66 table of contents fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value at july 2, 2010 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 2,101 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,101 $ 2,101 average interest rate 0.10 % 0.10 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 163 $ 58 $ 27 $ $ $ $ 248 $ 252 average interest rate 2.02 % 3.20 % 2.66 % 2.37 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 19 $ 19 $ 17 average interest rate 0.61 % 0.61 % total investment securities $ 2,264 $ 58 $ 27 $ $ $ 19 $ 2,368 $ 2,370 average interest rate 0.24 % 3.20 % 2.66 % 0.61 % 0.34 % debt fixed rate $ 359 $ 560 $ $ 430 $ $ 1,200 $ 2,549 $ 2,590 average interest rate 2.69 % 6.38 % 10.00 % 6.84 % 6.68 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging (previously sfas 161, disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities ). all these forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (expense) on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any net gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense) for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2010, nor did we discontinue any material cash flow hedges for a forecasted transaction in the same period. 67 table of contents the table below provides information as of july 2, 2010 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: singapore dollar $ 92 1.41 $ 2 thai baht 569 32.53 5 japanese yen 1 93.30 czech koruna 10 20.62 total $ 672 $ 7 (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our accounts receivable balances, our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for both our accounts receivable balances and our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of july 2, 2010, we had counterparty credit exposure of $7 million comprised of the mark-to-market valuation related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts in a gain position. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we have exposure to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan the seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). in the quarter ended july 3, 2009, we entered into a total return swap (trs) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp plan liabilities. we pay a floating rate, based on libor plus a spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp plan liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. the contract term of the trs is one year and is settled on a monthly basis therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. the terms of the trs required us to pledge initial collateral of $18 million to the counterparty for the term of the contract. additional collateral may be posted contingent on the counterparty's exposure to the market value of the trs. as of july 2, 2010, we had $18 million pledged to the counterparty, recorded as restricted cash. during fiscal year 2010, approximately $1 million of our auction rate securities were called by the issuers. as of july 2, 2010, we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $19 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of july 2, 2010, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $17 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $2 million are temporary as we do not intend to sell these securities and have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of the amortized cost basis. as such, the impairment was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and these securities were classified as long-term investments. 68 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 or section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, each as amended). certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "may," "are expected to," "will," "will continue," "should," "would be," "seeks" or "anticipates" or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. these forward-looking statements are based on management's current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: uncertainty in global economic conditions as customers may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news; the impact of the variable demand and the pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities; and the risk that our recently announced transaction with samsung electronics co., ltd. ("samsung") will not be consummated and the risk that we will incur significant costs in connection with the transaction (see item 1a risk factors for risks related to our pending alignment with samsung below). these risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k as anticipated, believed or expected. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are the world's leading provider of hard disk drives based on revenue. we design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives. hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. the performance attributes of disk drives, including their cost effectiveness, high quality, high storage capacities and energy efficiencies have resulted in disk drives being used as the primary medium for mass storage of electronic data. we produce a broad range of disk drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. in addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, tape storage and semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as fuji electric device technology co., ltd., showa denko k.k. and tdk corporation, which supply heads and media to disk drive manufacturers; lsi corporation and marvell technology group limited, which supply application specific integrated circuits (asics); and hoya corporation, which supplies glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers such as seagate, hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics co., ltd., toshiba corporation and western digital corporation; magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as quantum corporation; and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as intel corporation, micron technology, samsung electronics co., ltd., sandisk corporation and stec, inc., whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (ssds). system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications. client compute original equipment manufacturers (oems) include acer inc., apple inc., dell inc., hewlett-packard company and lenovo group limited; client non-compute oems include apple inc., directv group, inc., microsoft corporation, motorola, inc., scientific-atlanta inc., sony corporation and tivo inc.; and enterprise storage system oems include emc corporation, hewlett-packard company and netapp, inc. distributors who integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. storage services. another area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. 4 table of contents demand for electronic data storage the electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on client compute applications. we believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of client non-compute applications such as digital video recorders, gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as youtube, facebook, pandora, itunes, hulu and linkedin; network and video infrastructure , including broadband, internet protocol television (iptv), cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through dvrs, handheld devices, tablets and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions which we believe will continue to grow with the increased demand for electronic data storage, in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. we believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. other factors driving demand for additional storage include: continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost-effective methods of processing and storing mass data increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate; increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives; and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the healthcare industry demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. in addition, we believe the continued increase in demand for disk drives, in developed countries as well as in emerging economies, reflects the demand for real-time access to rich data and content driven by the impact of a highly mobile and increasingly connected user base. we believe these trends will continue as computing architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world. historically, the electronic data storage industry has introduced alternative technologies that directly compete with hard disk drives. ssds, using nand flash memory, are a potential alternative to disk drives in certain applications such as consumer handheld devices, tablets and portable external storage. nand flash memory is a type of non-volatile storage technology. however, we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industry's ability to deliver reliable, energy efficient and cost effective mass storage devices. 5 table of contents disk drives for enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as disk drives designed for mission critical applications and nearline applications. mission critical applications are defined as applications that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance, and high reliability disk drives. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises moving network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. we believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor disk drives. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as applications that are capacity-intensive and require high capacity and energy efficient disk drives featuring low costs per gigabyte. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for disk drives designed with these attributes. ssd storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. in addition, enterprises are gradually adopting ssds in applications where rapid processing and/or energy efficiency is required. the timing of significant adoption of ssds is dependent on enterprises weighing the cost effectiveness and other benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of ssds. disk drives for client compute. we define client compute applications as disk drives designed for the traditional desktop and mobile compute applications. we believe that the increase in demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will drive the demand for the client compute market. disk drives for client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage (nas). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr disk drive capacities. client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. we believe the proliferation of high definition and media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. as the proliferation of client non-compute applications that require minimal storage such as tablets continues, ssds could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future. industry supply balance from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. for the first half of fiscal year 2011, our industry experienced a period of relative balance between supply and demand. we also believe there was unmet demand in the last quarter of fiscal year 2011 due to a reaction to possible supply chain disruptions stemming from the earthquake and tsunami in japan. however, the industry returned to a relatively balanced supply environment at the end of the fiscal year. 6 table of contents disk drive technology overview the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drive performance disk drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates. areal density areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing disk drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the design and manufacture of the technology used in their products and by whether they are captive, producing disk drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disk drives as a stand-alone product. vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. in contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third-party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and 7 table of contents differentiation. this can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the technology investment decisions of their suppliers. independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive advantage over captive manufacturers in working with oems because they do not compete with oems for computer system sales. we believe the competitive dynamics of the disk drive industry favor vertically integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. we pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large-scale operations may also drive future industry consolidation. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. components and raw materials all of our disk drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. 8 table of contents media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly (e-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various asian countries, including china, japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan, thailand and vietnam, in europe and in the united states. suppliers of components and industry constraints. due to industry consolidation, there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. during the latter part of fiscal year 2011, the industry experienced significant increases in the costs of rare earth elements, which are used in magnets as well as in the process for polishing glass substrates. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of disk drive products for the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute market applications. we offer more than one product within each product family and 9 table of contents differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 600gb. commercial uses for cheetah disk drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. we are currently shipping our fifth generation savvio 2.5-inch enterprise disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. our savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 900gb. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. constellation es sata family. our constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch and in storage capacities of up to 1tb and 3tb, respectively, at 7,200 rpm. the constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and optional security. pulsar family. our pulsar family of products are performance-optimized solid state drives for high-value, critical data, requiring enterprise class endurance and reliability in capacities ranging from 50gb to 800gb. client compute momentus ata/sata family. our momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 160gb to 1 tb. momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. consumer uses for momentus disk drives also include tablets and digital audio applications. our momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 rpm disk drive for high-performance notebooks. in addition, we are the industry leader in shipments of hybrid drives into the notebook market with our momentus xt product line. hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and nand flash storage. the benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to ssds alone. barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities of up to 2tb. barracuda disk drives are designed for applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. client non-compute pipeline hd and db35 sata family. we sell our 3.5-inch pipeline hd and db35 disk drives primarily for use in dvrs. these disk drives are optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment and range from 160gb to 2tb. pipeline mini sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 5,400 rpm pipeline mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160gb up to 500gb, for use in low-profile dvrs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. 10 table of contents we ship external backup storage solutions under our free agent go and free agent go flex product lines. both of these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 3tb and 1tb, respectively. customers we sell our disk drives to major oems, distributors and retailers under our globally recognized brand names. we have longstanding relationships with many of our oem customers, such as hewlett-packard company, dell inc. and emc corporation. the following table summarizes our disk drive revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended july 1, 2011 july 2, 2010 july 3, 2009 revenues by channel (%) oem 69 % 71 % 64 % distributors 22 % 21 % 27 % retail 9 % 8 % 9 % revenues by geography (%) americas 29 % 26 % 28 % emea 20 % 22 % 27 % asia pacific 51 % 52 % 45 % oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 6 to 24 months; however they are generally cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice. our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond the term of these agreements. these master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal year 2011, hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 15% of consolidated revenue, while dell inc. accounted for approximately 13% of consolidated revenue. in each of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 16% of consolidated revenue, while dell inc. accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated revenue. we have master purchase agreements in place with hewlett-packard company and dell inc. that are cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice, and do not require either customer to purchase any minimum or other specified quantity of our products. see "item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." 11 table of contents competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. we believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal disk drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products, product life cycles and technology. principal disk drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include independent disk drive manufacturers such as western digital corporation, as well as large captive manufacturers such as hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics co., ltd. and toshiba corporation. because these captive manufacturers produce complete computer systems and other non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, they can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which may reduce their need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in their computer systems and may allow them to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, competitors such as samsung electronics co., ltd. and toshiba corporation are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disk drives and ssds into their product offerings. not only may they be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio may allow them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other as they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. in addition to competing with our disk drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as iomega corporation (an emc company) and lacie s.a. that purchase disk drives from us and our competitors for use in their branded storage products. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds. in the flash memory market, primarily used in lower capacity handheld devices, our principal competitors include micron technology, inc., samsung electronics co., ltd., sandisk corporation and toshiba corporation. in enterprise applications, where ssds are used for rapid processing and high volume transactions, our principal ssd competitors include hitachi global storage technologies, intel corporation and stec inc., with others expected to enter in the near future. price erosion. our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand, which may cause excess supply. 12 table of contents disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we expect price erosion in our industry to continue. to remain competitive, we believe it is necessary for industry participants to continue to introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of the competition in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structures on these new products. product life cycles and changing technology. our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. as a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products, allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. however, with volatility in fuel costs, the industry may be experiencing higher levels of demand earlier in the calendar year as customers attempt to take advantage of less expensive modes of transportation, which generally require longer lead times. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had product development expenses of approximately $875 million, $877 million and $953 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 8% and 10% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of july 1, 2011, we had 4,370 u.s. patents and 553 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,093 u.s. and 444 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent 13 table of contents applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13, legal, environmental, and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. backlog in view of our customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few sites at this time. 14 table of contents while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern (svhcs) in products. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at july 1, 2011, we employed approximately 52,700 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 45,500 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 12, business segment and geographic information." corporate information on july 3, 2010, we consummated our previously announced reorganization pursuant to which seagate technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland, became the publicly traded parent of the seagate corporate family. prior to the reorganization our publicly traded parent was seagate technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investor relations" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically 15 table of contents file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 4, 2011. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 54 chairman, president and chief executive officer patrick j. o'malley 49 executive vice president and chief financial officer robert w. whitmore 49 executive vice president and chief technology officer william d. mosley 44 executive vice president, operations albert a. "rocky" pimentel 55 executive vice president, chief sales and marketing officer d. kurt richarz 50 executive vice president, sales kenneth m. massaroni 50 executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer david h. morton jr. 39 vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. mr. luczo, 54, has served as president and ceo since january 2009, and continues to serve as chairman of the board. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc. and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors of seagate technology, inc. he was appointed chairman of the board in 2002. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 3, 2004, but retained his position as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. patrick j. o'malley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. o'malley, 49, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director/manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. robert w. whitmore, executive vice president and chief technology officer. mr. whitmore, 49, has been executive vice president and chief technology officer since march 2011. prior to that he was executive vice president, design and operations from 2007 through march 2011; executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. 16 table of contents william d. mosley, executive vice president, operations. mr. mosley, 44, has served as executive vice president, operations since march 2011. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. albert a. "rocky" pimentel, executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing. mr. pimentel, 55, joined seagate in april 2011. mr. pimentel was previously a director of seagate from 2009 until his resignation from the board of directors on april 7, 2011. mr. pimentel served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer ("cfo") at mcafee, inc., from 2008 until he retired in august 2010. he served as the executive vice president and cfo of glu mobile from 2004 to 2008. prior to joining glu mobile, mr. pimentel served as executive vice president and cfo at zone labs from 2003 to 2004, which was acquired by check point software in 2004. from 2001 to 2003, mr. pimentel was a partner with redpoint ventures. mr. pimentel also held the positions of senior vice president and cfo of webtv networks, which was acquired by microsoft in 1997; from 1996 until 2001, senior vice president and cfo of lsi logic corporation from 1992 to 1996 and was part of the founding management team of conner peripherals, inc., which was acquired by the company in 1996. d. kurt richarz, executive vice president, sales and marketing. mr. richarz, 50, joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor corporation. he has served as our executive vice president, sales and marketing since march 2011. prior to that, he served as our executive vice president, sales from may 2008 through march 2011;executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since from may 2006 to may 2008; senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008, and vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007. at maxtor corporation, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. kenneth m. massaroni, executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer. mr. massaroni, 50, was appointed executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer in july 2011. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from april 2008 through july 2011; vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008; and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. in addition, mr. massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola inc. from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems, inc. from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion devices inc. from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. david h. morton jr., vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer. mr. morton, 39, joined seagate in 1995 and has served as our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since october 2009. prior to that, he served as our vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. prior to june 2004, mr. morton held a variety of progressively senior management positions within our finance organization. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business macroeconomic conditions changes in the macroeconomic environment have, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, the capital and credit markets continue to experience some measure of volatility and disruption, resulting in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and reduced stability in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business including our customers being less able to obtain financing to purchase our products. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. the disk drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe price erosion and market share variability will continue, as the industry engages in aggressive pricing actions targeted to shift customer demand to offset lower demand due to the deterioration in business and economic conditions. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. this risk is particularly pronounced in markets where we have experienced lower market share, as is the case in the market for 2.5-inch ata products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when product life cycles for particular products are extended, allowing competitors more time to enter the market. the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant 18 table of contents decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disk drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disk drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disk drive manufacturers, and large captive manufacturers. the term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disk drives as a stand-alone product, such as western digital corporation, and the term "captive" in this context refers to manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other electronic data storage products, such as hitachi global storage technologies, samsung electronics incorporated and toshiba corporation. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. as components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disk drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. samsung and hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disk drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disk drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disk drives, manufacturers of disk drives have had to develop large, and in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of these large production facilities combined with industry consolidation can further increase the intensity of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disk drives or other electronic data storage products. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. some of these companies, like samsung, also sell disk drives. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are evaluating and may adopt ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; 19 table of contents competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disk drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disk drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disk drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. 20 table of contents we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. smaller form factor disk drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disk drives, our business may suffer. the disk drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disk drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronic devices, but also in personal computers and enterprise storage applications. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce smaller form factor drives at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, energy efficiency and performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disk drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disk drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disk drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disk drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; 21 table of contents our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially during periods when the u.s. dollar is relatively volatile as compared to other currencies; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. dependence on supply of components, equipment and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disk drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disk drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we 22 table of contents could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. importance of time-to-maturity our results of operations may depend on our being among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disk drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems' competitors. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. 23 table of contents industry demand poor global economic conditions and changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disk drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. during times of poor global economic conditions, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. moreover, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disk drive products. the decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disk drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disk drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. dependence on sales of disk drives in client non-compute applications our sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications, which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications have contributed significant revenues to our results. consumer spending on client non-compute has, and may continue to, deteriorate in many countries and regions, due to poor global economic conditions and high levels of unemployment. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from 24 table of contents our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fuelling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. impairment charges we may be required to record additional impairment charges for goodwill and/or other long-lived assets. we are required to assess goodwill annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. we are also required to test other long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, equipment and leasehold improvements, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in impairment charges to our goodwill or other long lived assets. if our goodwill or other long-lived assets were to become impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 25 table of contents dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard company, dell inc. and emc corporation, account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disk drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, tablet or mobile phones with advanced capabilities, or smartphones, may not contain a disk drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disk drives for these new applications, these new applications may have an impact on future demand for disk drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical storage and other storage technologies, are becoming increasingly common and could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer 26 table of contents increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or 27 table of contents future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures; product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 (the "10% notes") impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. subject to qualifications and exceptions, our senior secured revolving credit facility and such indenture limit, among other things, our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred shares; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; redeem or repurchase capital stock or debt; make certain investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage to any material extent in business other than our current business; and effect a consolidation or merger. the credit agreement that governs our senior secured revolving credit facility contains certain covenants that we must satisfy in order to remain in compliance with the credit agreement, including three financial covenants: (1) minimum cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments; (2) a fixed charge coverage ratio; and (3) a net leverage ratio. a breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including our inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. if a condition of default occurs, and we are not able to obtain a waiver from the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under our senior secured revolving credit facility, the administrative agent of our senior secured revolving credit facility may, and at the request of lenders holding a majority of the commitments shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, and may terminate the lenders' commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and, if we cannot repay our outstanding obligation, institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. if our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. we could also be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 28 table of contents in addition, some of the agreements governing our other debt instruments contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered by a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. in the event that we default under our senior secured revolving credit facility, there could be an event of default under cross-default provisions for the applicable debt instrument. as a result, all outstanding obligations under certain of our debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. if such acceleration were to occur, we may not have adequate funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure certain indebtedness since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support, and if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under certain of our existing debt obligations, the lenders thereunder could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. substantially all our assets and the assets of our significant subsidiaries organized in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore, as well as certain assets located in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore owned by other significant subsidiaries, and all proceeds therefrom, are pledged as security for borrowings under our 10% notes, as well as obligations under our hedging agreements, cash management arrangements and certain metal leasing arrangements. since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we have a limited amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support. as a result, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support for our existing indebtedness. in addition, our failure to comply with the terms of the indenture governing our 10% notes would entitle the lenders thereunder to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to meet these payment obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all our assets that serve as collateral. failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. on april 7, 2011, we declared a dividend of $0.18 per share that was paid on june 1, 2011 to our shareholders of record as of may 2, 2011. on july 20, 2011, the board of directors approved a cash dividend of $0.18 per share, which will be payable on august 26, 2011 to our shareholders of record as of the close of business on august 5, 2011. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. purchase commitments to certain suppliers if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. 29 table of contents risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. 30 table of contents we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13, legal, environmental and other contingencies of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. while we continue to improve our disaster recovery processes, system failures and other interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local 31 table of contents currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be 32 table of contents operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. dependence on key personnel the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our ordinary shares. recent u.s. federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. global credit and financial market conditions deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments or auction rate securities since july 1, 2011, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. 33 table of contents environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. for example, the eu has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the focus of such legislation, we will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted and that our suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which would also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. volatile public markets the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; 34 table of contents announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. risks related to our pending strategic alignment with samsung we will not be able to complete the strategic alignment with samsung unless we receive the requisite regulatory approvals, or the regulatory approvals may contain burdensome conditions. we have recently announced the entry into an asset purchase agreement with samsung electronics co., ltd. ("samsung"), pursuant to which we agreed to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of samsung relating to the research and development, manufacture and sale of hard disk drives and to enter into certain related agreements in connection therewith, including an intellectual property agreement, a patent cross-license agreement, a disk drive supply agreement, a nand flash memory supply agreement and a shareholder agreement. the purchase price for these assets consists of $687.5 million in cash and approximately 45.2 million of our ordinary shares. under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, the transactions contemplated thereby are subject to the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, clearance by the european commission and the receipt of certain other similar regulatory approvals from the republic of korea, japan, and the people's republic of china. while we intend to consummate the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement and related agreements as soon as practicable after such regulatory approvals are obtained, there can be no assurance that we will obtain such approvals when expected or at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement and related agreements or restrict our ability to realize the expected financial and strategic goals of the transactions contemplated thereby. in certain specified circumstances, we must pay samsung a termination fee of $72.5 million (generally if the transaction has not been consummated and the requisite regulatory approvals have not been obtained by the expiration date of december 31, 2011, which may be extended in certain circumstances to march 31, 2012). if regulatory approvals have been obtained but the transaction has not been consummated by the expiration date, then in certain specified circumstances we must pay samsung a termination fee of $82.5 million (generally if we are in breach of the agreement and legal remedies are not awarded to samsung). in addition, the governmental entities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the transaction or require changes to the terms of the strategic alignment. while we do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that there will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the transaction or reducing its anticipated benefits. if we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the strategic alignment, the business and results of operations of the combined company may be adversely affected. 35 table of contents if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. if we cannot successfully integrate the assets we acquire from samsung into our operations, we may experience negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. the integration of the assets that we acquire from samsung into our business will involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: diversion of senior management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of the acquired assets into our business; the potential that we do not successfully integrate the employees that we hire from samsung's hard disk drive business into our business; the potential loss of key customers or suppliers of samsung's hard disk drive business who do not choose to do business with us; the potential that key customers do not accept new products of the combined company; the potential that we do not successfully coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; potential revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels; the potential that we do not qualify the combined company's products as a primary source of supply with oem customers on a timely basis or at all; the risk of higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; difficulties and uncertainties in achieving anticipated cost reductions and operational synergies; potential difficulties integrating manufacturing and design processes and controls; potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; and potential incompatibility of technology and systems. even if we are able to successfully integrate the assets that we acquire from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. the issuance of our ordinary shares to samsung in connection with the asset purchase agreement will dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders. in connection with the asset purchase agreement with samsung, we expect to issue approximately 45.2 million shares of our ordinary shares to samsung, representing over 10% of our outstanding ordinary 36 table of contents shares. we will be issuing these shares from our authorized but unissued share reserves, and this issuance will have the effect of diluting the ownership of our existing shareholders. we expect the integration of seagate and samsung's hard drive business will result in revenue attrition, significant accounting charges and increased capital expenditures that will have an adverse effect on the results and financial condition of the combined company. the financial results of the combined company may be adversely affected by cash expenditures and non-cash charges incurred in connection with the strategic alignment. in addition to the anticipated cash expenditures, we expect significant non-cash charges, including those associated with the amortization of intangible assets. we anticipate that the majority of these cash expenditures and non-cash charges will occur in the 12 months following the closing of the combination, and will reduce earnings of the combined enterprise. in addition, the combined company is likely to incur revenue attrition. as a result of the revenue attrition, capital expenditures and charges described above, the operating results and financial condition of the combined company may be adversely affected after the consummation of the strategic alignment, particularly in the first year following the closing. the announcement and pendency of the strategic alignment could cause disruptions in the businesses of seagate and samsung, which could have an adverse effect on their respective business and financial results, and consequently on the combined company. seagate and samsung have operated and, until the completion of the strategic alignment, will continue to operate independently. uncertainty about the effect of the strategic alignment on employees, customers, distributors and suppliers may have an adverse effect on seagate and samsung and consequently on the combined company. these uncertainties may impair seagate's and samsung's ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers, distributors, suppliers and others with whom each company deals to seek to change existing business relationships which may materially and adversely affect their respective businesses. due to the materiality standards agreed to by the parties in the agreement, seagate and samsung may be obligated to consummate the transaction in spite of the adverse effects resulting from the disruption of seagate's and samsung's ongoing businesses. furthermore, this disruption could adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers and employees after the transaction or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. for example, in many instances, seagate and samsung serve the same customers, and some of these customers may decide it is desirable to have additional or different suppliers, reducing the combined company's share of the market. revenues that may have ordinarily been received by seagate or samsung may be delayed until or after the transaction is completed or not earned at all, and cost reductions that would ordinarily have been achieved might be delayed or not achieved at all, whether or not the transaction is completed. moreover, efforts to integrate samsung's hard drive business into seagate's operations will also divert management attention and resources. these integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of seagate and samsung. each of these events could adversely affect samsung in the near term and the combined company, if the transaction is completed. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock prices and the future business and financial results of seagate. if the strategic alignment is not completed, the ongoing business of seagate may be adversely affected and seagate will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: seagate will be required to pay samsung a termination fee as described above; seagate will be required to pay certain costs relating to the transaction, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and related fees whether or not the transaction is completed; and 37 table of contents matters relating to the transaction (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by seagate management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to seagate, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the transaction. if the strategic alignment is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect seagate's business, financial results and stock price. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. at july 1, 2011, with the exception of our auction rate securities, we had no marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months and determined that no investments were other-than-temporarily impaired. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 1, 2011. all short-term investments mature in four years or less. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value at july 1, 2011 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 2,590 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,590 $ 2,590 average interest rate 0.08 % 0.08 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 260 $ 132 $ 68 $ 8 $ $ $ 468 $ 474 average interest rate 1.53 % 2.34 % 1.82 % 2.98 % 1.82 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 18 $ 18 $ 16 average interest rate 0.41 % 0.41 % total investment securities $ 2,850 $ 132 $ 68 $ 8 $ $ 18 $ 3,076 $ 3,080 average interest rate 0.21 % 2.34 % 1.82 % 2.98 % 0.41 % 0.34 % debt fixed rate $ 559 $ $ 416 $ $ $ 2,550 $ 3,525 $ 3,658 average interest rate 6.38 % 10.00 % 7.14 % 7.36 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by 67 table of contents changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging. all these forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in costs of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal years 2011 and 2010. the table below provides information as of july 1, 2011 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 333 30.35 $ (5 ) singapore dollar 221 1.25 4 chinese renminbi 78 6.38 czech koruna 11 16.95 total $ 643 $ (1 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of july 1, 2011, we had counterparty credit exposure of $5 million comprised of the mark-to-market valuation related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts in a gain position. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). prior to january 3, 2011, we had a total return swap (trs) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. effective january 3, 2011, we cancelled the trs, and we currently manage our exposure to equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities by investing directly in mutual funds that mirror the employees' investment options. during fiscal year 2011, approximately $1 million of our auction rate securities were called by the issuers. as of july 1, 2011 we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $18 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of july 1, 2011, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $16 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $2 million are temporary as we do not intend to sell these securities and have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of the amortized cost basis. as such, the impairment was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and these securities were classified as long-term investments. 68 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." these statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and are based on management's current views and assumptions. these forward-looking statements are also conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: uncertainty in global economic conditions, as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news; the impact of variable demand and the adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans; the risk that we will incur significant incremental costs in connection with the implementation of our recently executed transactions with samsung electronics co. ltd. or that we will not achieve the benefits expected from such transactions (see item 1a risk factors for risks related to our strategic alignment with samsung below); and 3 table of contents significant disruption to the industry supply chain due to the severe flooding throughout parts of thailand and the industry's ability to recover from such disruption (see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a discussion of severe flooding in thailand below). additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k as anticipated, believed or expected. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of electronic data storage products. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality, cost effectiveness and energy efficiencies. we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs), gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. in addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives and semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory. demand for electronic data storage technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of content rich devices such as media tablets, dvrs, gaming consoles, digital music players and digital cameras, are driving the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as youtube, facebook, netflix, pandora, itunes, hulu and linkedin; network and video infrastructure , including broadband, internet protocol television (iptv), cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through dvrs, handheld devices, tablets, smart phones and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions which we believe will continue to grow with the increased demand for electronic data storage in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. we believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional 5 table of contents demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. other factors driving demand for additional storage include: continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost-effective methods of processing and storing mass data increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate; increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives; and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the health care industry. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. in addition, we believe the continued increased demand for electronic data storage, in developed countries as well as in emerging economies, reflects the demand for real-time access to rich data and content driven by the impact of a highly mobile and increasingly connected user base. we believe these trends will continue as computing architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives based on the industry's ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that consume media rich content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. industry supply balance from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. in early october 2011, floodwaters north of bangkok, thailand inundated many manufacturing industrial parks that contained a number of the factories supporting the hdd industry's supply chain. the hdd industry had concentrated a large portion of its supply chain participants within these industrial parks in an effort to reduce cost and improve logistics. as a result, the inundation of floodwaters into these industrial parks had caused the closure or suspension of production by a number of participants within the hdd supply chain. during the supply chain disruption in fiscal year 2012, we believe demand exceeded supply due to the impact from the flooding in thailand, resulting in an increase in the average selling price ("asp"). the industry's ability to manufacture and ship drives has continued to recover through the end of the fiscal year and we believe total shipments in the industry were approximately 600 million units, compared to 657 million units during fiscal year 2011. as of june 29, 2012, we believe that the hdd industry's component supply chain has substantially recovered. markets the principal markets served by the disk drive industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. 6 table of contents mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance and high reliability solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises moving network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. we believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. solid state drive ("ssd") storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. in addition, enterprises are gradually adopting ssds in applications where rapid processing and/or energy efficiency is required. the timing of significant adoption of ssds is dependent on enterprises weighing the cost effectiveness and other benefits of mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of ssds. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient solutions featuring low costs per gigabyte. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased consumption of media rich content streamed from the cloud, we expect increased petabyte demand for high capacity nearline devices. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. we believe that the increase in demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive growing demand for the client compute market. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications may require less built-in storage, and therefore ssds could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future. ssds could become more competitive within the client compute market in the future as mobile compute applications transition to smaller and thinner form factors. client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage (nas). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs and gaming consoles that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr disk drive capacities. client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of high definition and media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (ssds). system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. 7 table of contents storage services. companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing 8 table of contents efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we 9 table of contents outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly (e-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. in fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the cost of components due to the severe flooding in thailand. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. for example, during the latter part of fiscal year 2011 and continuing into fiscal year 2012, the industry experienced significant increases in the costs of rare earth elements, which are used in magnets as well as in the process for polishing glass substrates. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of products for the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute market applications. we offer more than one product within each product family and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 600gb. commercial uses for cheetah disk drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. 10 table of contents savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. we are currently shipping our fifth generation savvio 2.5-inch enterprise disk drive featuring increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. our savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 73gb to 900gb. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. constellation es sata family. our constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch and in storage capacities of up to 1tb and 3tb, respectively, at 7,200 rpm. the constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and optional security. pulsar family. our pulsar family of products are performance-optimized solid state drives for high-value, critical data, requiring enterprise class endurance and reliability in capacities ranging from 50gb to 800gb. client compute momentus ata/sata family. our momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 160gb to 1 tb. momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. consumer uses for momentus disk drives also include tablets and digital audio applications. our momentus 7200.4 is a 7,200 rpm disk drive for high-performance notebooks. our momentus thin is the industry's first 7mm z-height, 2.5 inch form factor drive. in addition, we are the industry leader in shipments of hybrid drives into the notebook market with our momentus xt product line. hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and nand flash storage. the benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to ssds alone. barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 5,400, 5,900 and 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities of up to 3tb. barracuda disk drives are designed for applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. spinpoint sata mobile family. our spinpoint m8 2.5-inch mobile computing disk drives ship in 5,400 rpm, come in storage capacities of up to 1 tb, and continue to be produced under the samsung brand name. spinpoint sata desktop family. our spinpoint f3 3.5-inch desktop computing disk drives ship in 7,200 rpm, come in storage capacities of up to 1 tb, and continue to be produced under the samsung brand name. client non-compute pipeline hd and db35 sata family. we sell our 3.5-inch pipeline hd and db35 disk drives primarily for use in dvrs. these disk drives are optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment and range from 160gb to 2tb. pipeline mini sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 5,400 rpm pipeline mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160gb up to 500gb, for use in low-profile dvrs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. we ship external backup storage solutions under our goflex&reg;, backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the samsung brand name. these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 3tb and 1tb, respectively. we also ship network attached storage (nas) solutions under our goflex&reg; home and blackarmor&reg; product lines. these product lines 11 table of contents utilize our 3.5-inch disk drives; our goflex&reg; home products are available in capacities up to 3tb, and our blackarmor&reg; products are available in capacities up to 12tb. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. the following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended june 29, 2012 july 1, 2011 july 2, 2010 revenues by channel (%) oem 72 % 69 % 71 % distributors 21 % 22 % 21 % retail 7 % 9 % 8 % revenues by geography (%) americas 26 % 29 % 26 % emea 19 % 20 % 22 % asia pacific 55 % 51 % 52 % oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 12 to 24 months. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, dell inc. accounted for approximately 15%, 13% and 11% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of consolidated revenue, respectively. see "item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. we believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. 12 table of contents principal disk drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from other disk drive manufacturers. after the industry consolidation experienced during fiscal year 2012, in which we acquired certain assets that comprised the hdd business of samsung electronics co. ltd. and western digital corporation acquired viviti technologies ltd. (formerly hitachi global storage technologies). our primary competitors are western digital corporation and toshiba corporation. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds used both in lower capacity hand held devices and for rapid processing and high volume transactions. price erosion. our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors, generally allowing those disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, being first-to-market has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. disk drive industry consolidation. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. we acquired samsung electronics co., ltd's hard disk drive business in december of 2011, and western digital purchased viviti technologies ltd. (formerly hitachi global storage technologies) in march of 2012. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. 13 table of contents research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,006 million, $875 million, and $877 million, respectively, which represented 7%, 8%, and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of june 29, 2012, we had 5,323 u.s. patents and 1,866 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,275 u.s. and 1,156 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14, legal, environmental, and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. 14 table of contents environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based our current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("svhcs") in products. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at june 29, 2012, we employed approximately 57,900 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 50,600 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 13, business segment and geographic information." 15 table of contents corporate information on july 3, 2010, we consummated our previously announced reorganization pursuant to which seagate technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland, became the publicly traded parent of the seagate corporate family. prior to the reorganization our publicly traded parent was seagate technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investor relations" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 8, 2012. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 55 chairman, president and chief executive officer patrick j. o'malley 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer robert w. whitmore 50 executive vice president and chief technology officer william d. mosley 45 executive vice president, operations albert a. "rocky" pimentel 56 executive vice president, chief sales and marketing officer d. kurt richarz 51 executive vice president, sales kenneth m. massaroni 51 executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer david h. morton jr. 40 vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. mr. luczo, 55, has served as president and ceo since january 2009, and continues to serve as chairman of the board. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc. and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors of seagate technology, inc. he was appointed chairman of the board in 2002. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 3, 2004, but retained his position as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, 16 table of contents mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo was appointed to the board of directors of microsoft corporation in may 2012. patrick j. o'malley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. o'malley, 50, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director/manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. mr. o'malley was appointed to the board of directors of e2open, inc. in january 2012. robert w. whitmore, executive vice president and chief technology officer. mr. whitmore, 50, has been executive vice president and chief technology officer since march 2011. prior to that he was executive vice president, design and operations from 2007 through march 2011; executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. william d. mosley, executive vice president, operations. mr. mosley, 45, has served as executive vice president, operations since march 2011. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. albert a. "rocky" pimentel, executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing. mr. pimentel, 56, joined seagate in april 2011. mr. pimentel was previously a director of seagate from 2009 until his resignation from the board of directors on april 7, 2011. mr. pimentel served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer ("cfo") at mcafee, inc., from 2008 until he retired in august 2010. he served as the executive vice president and cfo of glu mobile from 2004 to 2008. prior to joining glu mobile, mr. pimentel served as executive vice president and cfo at zone labs from 2003 to 2004, which was acquired by check point software in 2004. from 2001 to 2003, mr. pimentel was a partner with redpoint ventures. mr. pimentel also held the positions of senior vice president and cfo of webtv networks, which was acquired by microsoft in 1997; from 1996 until 2001, senior vice president and cfo of lsi logic corporation from 1992 to 1996 and was part of the founding management team of conner peripherals, inc., which was acquired by the company in 1996. d. kurt richarz, executive vice president, sales and marketing. mr. richarz, 51, joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor corporation. he has served as our executive vice president, sales and marketing since march 2011. prior to that, he served as our executive vice president, sales from may 2008 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since from may 2006 to may 2008; senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008, and vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007. at maxtor corporation, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice 17 table of contents president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. kenneth m. massaroni, executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer. mr. massaroni, 51, was appointed executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer in july 2011. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from april 2008 through july 2011; vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008; and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. in addition, mr. massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola inc. from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems, inc. from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion devices inc. from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. david h. morton jr., vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer. mr. morton, 40, joined seagate in 1995 and has served as our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since october 2009. prior to that, he served as our vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. prior to june 2004, mr. morton held a variety of progressively senior management positions within our finance organization. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business macroeconomic conditions changes in the macroeconomic environment have, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. the disk drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe price erosion and market share variability will continue, as the industry engages in aggressive pricing actions targeted to shift customer demand to offset lower demand due to the deterioration in business and economic conditions. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when product life cycles for particular products are extended, allowing competitors more time to enter the market. sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents principal competitors we compete with both an independent manufacturer, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disk drives, and a captive manufacturer, who does not depend solely on sales of disk drives to maintain its profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from an independent disk drive manufacturer, and a captive manufacturer. the term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disk drives as a stand-alone product, such as western digital corporation, and the term "captive" in this context refers to a manufacturer who through affiliated entities produces complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other electronic data storage products, such as toshiba corporation. the captive manufacturer is a formidable competitor because it has the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. as components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disk drives, the captive manufacturer does not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. the captive manufacturer is also a formidable competitor because it has more substantial resources than we do. to the extent we are not successful competing with the captive or independent disk drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disk drives, manufacturers of disk drives have had to develop large, and in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of these large production facilities combined with industry consolidation can further increase the intensity of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disk drives or other electronic data storage products. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are evaluating and may adopt ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; 20 table of contents increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disk drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disk drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disk drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; 21 table of contents dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially during periods when the u.s. dollar is relatively volatile as compared to other currencies; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disk drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. 22 table of contents smaller form factor products if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor products, our business may suffer. the disk drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disk drives or other electronic data storage technologies for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronic devices, but also in personal computers and enterprise storage applications. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce smaller form factor products at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, energy efficiency and performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disk drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disk drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disk drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. dependence on supply of components, equipment and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disk drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disk drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the recent flooding in thailand, which has had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 23 table of contents consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. importance of time-to-maturity our results of operations may depend on our being among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disk drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems' competitors. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. 24 table of contents industry demand poor global economic conditions and changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disk drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. during times of poor global economic conditions, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. moreover, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disk drive products. the decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disk drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disk drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard company and dell inc., account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 25 table of contents dependence on sales of disk drives in client non-compute applications our sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications, which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications have contributed significant revenues to our results. consumer spending on client non-compute has, and may continue to, deteriorate in many countries and regions, due to poor global economic conditions and high levels of unemployment. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. 26 table of contents impairment charges we may be required to record additional impairment charges for goodwill and/or other long-lived assets. we are required to assess goodwill annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. we are also required to test other long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, equipment and leasehold improvements, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in impairment charges to our goodwill or other long lived assets. if our goodwill or other long-lived assets were to become impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disk drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, tablet or mobile phones with advanced capabilities, or smartphones, may not contain a disk drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disk drives for these new applications, these new applications may have an impact on future demand for disk drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory and other storage technologies, are becoming increasingly common and could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in 27 table of contents addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. 28 table of contents if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures; product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 10% senior secured second-priority notes due 2014 (the "10% notes") impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. subject to qualifications and exceptions, our senior secured revolving credit facility and such indenture limit, among other things, our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred shares; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; redeem or repurchase capital stock or debt; make certain investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage to any material extent in business other than our current business; and effect a consolidation or merger. the credit agreement that governs our senior secured revolving credit facility contains certain covenants that we must satisfy in order to remain in compliance with the credit agreement, including three financial covenants: (1) minimum cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments; (2) a fixed charge coverage ratio; and (3) a net leverage ratio. a breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including our inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. if a condition of default occurs, and we are not able to obtain a waiver from the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under our senior secured revolving credit facility, the administrative agent of our senior secured revolving credit facility may, and at the request of lenders holding a majority of the commitments shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, and may terminate the lenders' commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and, if we cannot repay our outstanding obligation, institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. if our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. we could also be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. in addition, some of the agreements governing our other debt instruments contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered by a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. in the event that we default under our senior secured revolving credit facility, there could be an event of default under cross-default provisions for the applicable debt instrument. as a result, all outstanding obligations under 29 table of contents certain of our debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. if such acceleration were to occur, we may not have adequate funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure certain indebtedness since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support, and if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under certain of our existing debt obligations, the lenders thereunder could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. substantially all our assets and the assets of our significant subsidiaries organized in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore, as well as certain assets located in the united states, the cayman islands, the netherlands, northern ireland and singapore owned by other significant subsidiaries, and all proceeds therefrom, are pledged as security for borrowings under our 10% notes, as well as obligations under our hedging agreements, cash management arrangements and certain metal leasing arrangements. since substantially all of our assets are used to secure portions of our existing debt obligations, we have a limited amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support. as a result, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to provide additional credit support for our existing indebtedness. in addition, our failure to comply with the terms of the indenture governing our 10% notes would entitle the lenders thereunder to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to meet these payment obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all our assets that serve as collateral. failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. purchase commitments to certain suppliers if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able 30 table of contents to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. 31 table of contents moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see part ii, "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14, legal, environmental and other contingencies" of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. cyber attacks, system failures and breaches we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we may also be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes information technology system failures and network disruptions. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. 32 table of contents economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. 33 table of contents global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. dependence on key personnel the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 34 table of contents global credit and financial market conditions deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments or auction rate securities since june 29, 2012, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. for example, the eu has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the focus of such legislation, we will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted and that our suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which would also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions 35 table of contents and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. volatile public markets the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. recently, the hard disk drive component supply chain has been significantly disrupted as a result of severe flooding in thailand, but our component and drive assembly factories in thailand were not directly affected by the flood, and continue to be fully operational. the industry's ability to manufacture and ship drives has continued to recover through the end of the fiscal year and we believe total shipments in the industry were approximately 600 million units compared, to 657 million units during fiscal year 2011. 36 table of contents if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. if we cannot successfully integrate the business we acquired from samsung into our operations, we may experience negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. even if we are able to successfully integrate the business that we acquired from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. in addition, the chinese ministry of commerce conditioned its approval of the samsung acquisition on our compliance with several on-going requirements, including: adopting measures to keep the samsung hdd brand as a separate competitor to the seagate hdd brand, expanding the samsung hdd production capacity within six months of the decision, and investing at least $800 million per year for three years in r&amp;d in our combined samsung and seagate hdd businesses. compliance with these obligations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in extending the time under which we would be compelled to operate under these conditions. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. at june 29, 2012, the use of approximately $346 million and $90 million of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, respectively, is subject to an aggregate annual limitation of $45 million pursuant to u.s. tax law. to the extent these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations in the u.s. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership, such as changes in ownership resulting from future repurchases of our ordinary shares, could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. if certain ownership changes occur in the foreseeable future, there may be an additional annual limitation on our ability to use our total u.s. federal and state net operating loss and credit carryforwards of $2.7 billion, $1.8 billion, and $363 million, respectively. if these ownership changes were to occur, we estimate a one-time charge for additional u.s. income tax expense of approximately $400 to $500 million may be recorded in the period such change occurs. this additional income tax expense results from a decrease in our net u.s. deferred tax assets recorded through a combination of the write off of deferred tax assets and associated changes to our valuation allowance. we also estimate that the ensuing additional annual limitation on our ability to use tax attribute carryovers may result in increased u.s. income tax expense associated with such change of approximately $50 to $75 million each year. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. 60 table of contents interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. at june 29, 2012, with the exception of our auction rate securities, we had no marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months and determined that no investments were other-than-temporarily impaired. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 29, 2012. all short-term investments mature in four years or less. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value at june 29, 2012 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 1,533 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,533 $ 1,533 average interest rate 0.14 % 0.14 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 61 $ 123 $ 172 $ 26 $ 18 $ $ 400 $ 411 average interest rate 0.75 % 0.84 % 1.10 % 0.87 % 1.14 % 0.95 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 17 $ 17 $ 15 average interest rate 0.71 % 0.71 % total investment securities $ 1,594 $ 123 $ 172 $ 26 $ 18 $ 17 $ 1,950 $ 1,959 average interest rate 0.16 % 0.84 % 1.10 % 0.87 % 1.14 % 0.71 % 0.31 % debt fixed rate $ $ 319 $ $ $ 600 $ 1,950 $ 2,869 $ 3,146 average interest rate 10.00 % 6.80 % 7.25 % 7.46 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging. all these forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in costs of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal years 2012 and 2011. the table below provides information as of june 29, 2012 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional 61 table of contents amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 252 31.41 $ (1 ) singapore dollar 71 1.28 chinese renminbi 27 6.34 czech koruna 7 19.72 total $ 357 $ (1 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of june 29, 2012, we had counterparty credit exposure of $1 million comprised of the mark-to-market valuation related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts in a gain position. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). we currently manage our exposure to equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities by investing directly in mutual funds that mirror the employees' investment options. as of june 29, 2012 we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $17 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of june 29, 2012, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $15 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $2 million are temporary as we do not intend to sell these securities and have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of the amortized cost basis. as such, the impairment was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and these securities were classified as long-term investments. 62 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." these statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and are based on management's current views and assumptions. these forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by such statements. such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the uncertainty in global economic conditions as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news; the impact of the variable demand and adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; a possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans. additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of electronic data storage products. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products including hdds, solid state hybrid drives (sshd) and solid state drives (ssd), which address enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs), gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. in addition to manufacturing and selling data storage products, we provide data storage services for small to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, semiconductor-based storage technologies such as ssd storage applications and software and services for cloud growth, big data and on-premise and mobility platforms. markets the principal markets served by the electronic data storage industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance and high reliability solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises moving network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. we believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient solutions featuring low costs per gigabyte. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased consumption of media rich content streamed from the cloud, we expect increased petabyte demand for high capacity nearline devices. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. we believe that the demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive demand for the client compute market. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications require less built-in storage, and therefore alternative storage solutions are becoming more prevalent within the client compute market. 4 table of contents client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage (nas). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs and gaming consoles that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr disk drive capacities. client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of high definition and media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits (asics) and glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. storage services. companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. demand for electronic data storage the continued advancement of cloud, mobile and open source computing, as well as an increase in the use and reliance on big data analytics are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to this growth are the increased: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and large amounts of electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as facebook, instagram, itunes, linkedin, netflix, pandora and youtube; consumption of digital content through smart phones, tablets, dvrs, and gaming consoles; use of machine generated data that is produced and stored in increasingly larger quantities; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions which we believe will continue to grow in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. additionally, as the way electronic data is consumed continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices and the growth of cloud computing, we also expect shifts in the manner that electronic data is stored. accordingly, we expect that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional non-compute markets will continue to grow. 5 table of contents demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry's ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that consume media rich content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. industry supply balance from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second (iops), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; 6 table of contents product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our 7 table of contents facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly (e-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. 8 table of contents products we offer a broad range of hdd's, sshd's, and ssd's, for the enterprise, datacenter, client compute and client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and instant encryption key replacement through our instant erase technology, and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage enterprise performance family. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance family disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 900gb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 600gb. enterprise capacity hdd family. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in a 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factor and in storage capacities of up to 4tb that clock in at 7,200 rpm speeds. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security, sata and sas interfaces. enterprise value hdd family. providing up to 3tb of sata-based high capacity, 3.5-inch energy-efficient enterprise storage, the enterprise value hard disk drive offers low-cost bulk storage designed for vast amounts of unstructured data in the cloud. it features low power for energy efficient operations and ensures reliable operations in 24x7 multi-drive replicated environments. seagate terascale hdd family. available in capacities up to 4tb in a 3.5-inch enterprise-class sata hard drive, the terascale hdd is designed to provide data centers with the storage scalability they need to meet demands in low workload, 24x7 replicated environments. we also ship sshd and ssd enterprise solutions, including our enterprise turbo sshd, 1200 ssd and 600 pro ssd products. these products offer an alternative solution to hdds, with higher speeds than traditional hdds, and capacities of up to 800 gb. client compute laptop hdds and sshds. our family of laptop drives ship in a variety of form factors (5mm to 9.5mm drive height), capacities (250gb to 1tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops to tablets, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. spinpoint sata mobile family. our spinpoint m8 2.5-inch mobile computing disk drives ship in 5,400 rpm, come in storage capacities of up to 1 tb, and continue to be produced under the samsung brand name. desktop hdd and sshds. our 3.5-inch family of desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 4tb. desktop drives are designed for applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. client non-compute video 3.5 and video 2.5 hdds. we sell our 3.5 and 2.5-inch video hdds for use in video applications like dvr, media centers or gaming consoles. these disk drives are optimized for video 9 table of contents streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. sv35: surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. this surveillance optimized drive was built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple hd streams and capacities up to 3tb. we ship external backup storage solutions under our backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the samsung and lacie brand names. these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 4tb and 1tb, respectively. in addition, we ship the wireless plus wireless drive for use with secondary mobile devices utilizing a 2.5-inch 1tb drive. we also ship network attached storage (nas) solutions under our central and business storage product lines. these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch disk drives; our central products are available in capacities up to 4tb, and our business storage products are available in capacities up to 16tb. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. the following table summarizes our revenue (1) by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended june 28, 2013 june 29, 2012 july 1, 2011 revenues by channel (%) oem 68 % 72 % 69 % distributors 21 % 21 % 22 % retail 11 % 7 % 9 % revenues by geography (%) americas 27 % 26 % 29 % emea 19 % 19 % 20 % asia pacific 54 % 55 % 51 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. 10 table of contents in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, dell inc. accounted for approximately 13%, 15% and 13% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 10%, 14% and 15% of consolidated revenue, respectively. see "item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications, but have in the past few years also competed with manufacturers of solid-state drives. the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, warranty and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. principal disk drive competitors. following industry consolidation during fiscal year 2012, three disk drive companies remain: seagate, selling the seagate and samsung brands; western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries; and toshiba corporation other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds used in mobile applications such as tablets, notebooks and lower capacity hand held devices in addition to ssds used in enterprise applications for rapid processing and high volume transactions. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") have been more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, 11 table of contents performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally those disk drive manufactures that are able to introduce new products first benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,133 million, $1,006 million and $875 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 7% and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of june 28, 2013, we had 5,570 u.s. patents and 1,965 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,304 u.s. and 1,259 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved 12 table of contents unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14, legal, environmental, and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based our current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("svhcs") in products. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 13 table of contents employees at june 28, 2013, we employed approximately 53,200 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 45,000 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13, business segment and geographic information." corporate information on july 3, 2010, we consummated our previously announced reorganization pursuant to which seagate technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland, became the publicly traded parent of the seagate corporate family. prior to the reorganization our publicly traded parent was seagate technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investors" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. 14 table of contents executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 7, 2013. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 56 chairman, president and chief executive officer patrick j. o'malley 51 executive vice president, chief financial officer kenneth m. massaroni 52 executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer william d. mosley 46 executive vice president, operations albert a. "rocky" pimentel 57 executive vice president, chief sales and marketing officer d. kurt richarz 52 executive vice president, sales mark re 53 senior vice president, chief technology officer douglas dehaan 55 general manager, samsung hdd brand of products david h. morton jr. 41 vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. mr. luczo, 56, has served as president and ceo since january 2009, and continues to serve as chairman of the board. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc. and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors of seagate technology, inc. he was appointed chairman of the board in 2002. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 3, 2004, but retained his position as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo was appointed to the board of directors of microsoft corporation in may 2012. patrick j. o'malley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. mr. o'malley, 51, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director/manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. mr. o'malley was appointed to the board of directors of e2open, inc. in january 2012. kenneth m. massaroni, executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer. mr. massaroni, 52, was appointed executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer in july 2011. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from april 2008 through july 2011; vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008; and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. in addition, mr. massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola inc. from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems, inc. from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion 15 table of contents devices inc. from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. william d. mosley, executive vice president, operations. mr. mosley, 46, has served as executive vice president, operations since march 2011. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. albert a. "rocky" pimentel, executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing. mr. pimentel, 57, joined seagate in april 2011. mr. pimentel was previously a director of seagate from 2009 until his resignation from the board of directors on april 7, 2011. mr. pimentel served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer ("cfo") at mcafee, inc., from 2008 until he retired in august 2010. he served as the executive vice president and cfo of glu mobile from 2004 to 2008. prior to joining glu mobile, mr. pimentel served as executive vice president and cfo at zone labs from 2003 to 2004, which was acquired by check point software in 2004. from 2001 to 2003, mr. pimentel was a partner with redpoint ventures. mr. pimentel also held the positions of senior vice president and cfo of webtv networks, which was acquired by microsoft in 1997; from 1996 until 2001, senior vice president and cfo of lsi logic corporation from 1992 to 1996 and was part of the founding management team of conner peripherals, inc., which was acquired by the company in 1996. d. kurt richarz, executive vice president, sales and marketing. mr. richarz, 52, joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor corporation. he has served as our executive vice president, sales and marketing since march 2011. prior to that, he served as our executive vice president, sales from may 2008 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since from may 2006 to may 2008; senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008, and vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007. at maxtor corporation, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. mark re, senior vice president, chief technology officer. mr. re, 53, joined seagate in august 2003 and has served as senior vice president, research and development, since july 2013. prior to that, he served as vice president, research, from august 2003 to august 2006; senior vice president, research, from august 2006 to march 2009; senior vice president, recording media operations, from march 2009 to march 2011; and senior vice president, recording media and heads research and development. mr. re also served as senior vice president, research and development at read rite corporation from 1998 to 2003. mr. re currently serves on the scientific advisory board for the data storage institute, as well as on the pittsburgh technology council and the advanced storage technology consortium. douglas dehaan, general manager, samsung hdd brand of products. mr. dehaan, 55, has been general manager, samsung hdd products since september 2012. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, operations and materials, from february 2009 until september 2012; senior vice president of quality from 2008 to 2009; senior vice president of product and process development, core products, from 2003 to 2008; senior vice president, process development and product launch, from 2001 to 2003; vice president, seagate factory of the future initiative, from 1999 to 2001; vice president, twin cities manufacturing operations, from 1996 to 1999; vice president, singapore operations, from 1994 to 1996; and senior director, manufacturing engineering/twin cities operations, from 1992 to 1994. 16 table of contents david h. morton jr., vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer. mr. morton, 41, joined seagate in 1995 and has served as our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since october 2009. prior to that, he served as our vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. prior to june 2004, mr. morton held a variety of progressively senior management positions within our finance organization. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business macroeconomic conditions changes in the macroeconomic environment have, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. continuing high unemployment rates, low levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence and decreased consumer and enterprise spending in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and may continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. the disk drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors have typically experienced substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. while recent slowing areal density improvements and longer product lifecycles have necessitated that hard drive manufacturers reduce engagement in aggressive pricing tactics that have historically led to increased price erosion, we believe that industry price erosion and market share may remain volatile should the industry engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to shift customer demand. sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both an independent manufacturer, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disk drives, and a captive manufacturer, who does not depend solely on sales of disk drives to maintain its profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from an independent disk drive manufacturer, and a captive manufacturer. the term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disk drives as a stand-alone product, such as western digital 18 table of contents corporation, and the term "captive" in this context refers to a manufacturer who through affiliated entities produces complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other electronic data storage products, such as toshiba corporation. the captive manufacturer is a formidable competitor because it has the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. as components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disk drives, the captive manufacturer does not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disk drives to third parties at very low margins. the captive manufacturer is also a formidable competitor because it has more substantial resources than we do. to the extent we are not successful competing with the captive or independent disk drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disk drives, manufacturers of disk drives have had to develop large, and in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of these large production facilities combined with industry consolidation can further increase the intensity of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disk drives or other electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disk drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; 19 table of contents changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disk drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disk drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially during periods when the u.s. dollar is relatively volatile as compared to other currencies; 20 table of contents uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disk drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. smaller form factor products if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor products, our business may suffer. the disk drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disk drives or other electronic data storage technologies for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronic devices, but also in personal computers and enterprise storage applications. our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce smaller form factor products at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, energy efficiency and 21 table of contents performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disk drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disk drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disk drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. dependence on supply of components, equipment and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disk drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disk drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the recent flooding in thailand, which has had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; 22 table of contents we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. importance of time-to-maturity our results of operations may depend on our being among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disk drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems' competitors. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. industry demand poor global economic conditions and changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disk drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. during times of poor global economic conditions, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. moreover, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disk drive products. the decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disk drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disk drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. dependence on sales of disk drives in client non-compute applications our sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications, which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. sales of disk drives for client non-compute applications have contributed significant revenues to our results. consumer spending on client non-compute has, and may continue to, deteriorate in many countries and regions, due to poor global economic conditions and high levels of unemployment. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk 24 table of contents of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disk drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. impairment charges we may be required to record impairment charges for goodwill and/or other long-lived assets. we are required to assess goodwill annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. we are also required to test other long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, equipment and leasehold improvements, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. 25 table of contents adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in impairment charges to our goodwill or other long lived assets. if our goodwill or other long-lived assets were to become impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disk drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, tablet or mobile phones with advanced capabilities, or smartphones, may not contain a disk drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disk drives for these new applications, these new applications may have an impact on future demand for disk drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory and other storage technologies, are becoming increasingly common and could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take 26 table of contents advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures; product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. 27 table of contents failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. purchase commitments to certain suppliers if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to 28 table of contents that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see part ii, "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14, legal, environmental and other contingencies" of this annual report on form 10-k for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. protection of our intellectual property we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our ip rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our ip rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other ip rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. 29 table of contents there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; or our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. cyber attacks, system failures and breaches we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we may also be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes, information technology system failures and network disruptions. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 30 table of contents we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk" of this annual report on form 10-k additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating 31 table of contents assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to economic conditions, political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. 32 table of contents dependence on key personnel the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. global credit and financial market conditions deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments , no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or 33 table of contents more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. new conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, the first such report being due on may 31, 2014. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. volatile public markets the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part 34 table of contents of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. even if we are able to successfully integrate the business that we acquired from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. 35 table of contents in addition, the chinese ministry of commerce conditioned its approval of the samsung acquisition on our compliance with several on-going requirements, including: adopting measures to keep the samsung hdd brand as a separate competitor to the seagate hdd brand, expanding the samsung hdd production capacity within six months of the decision, and investing at least $800 million per year for three years in r&amp;d in our combined samsung and seagate hdd businesses. compliance with these obligations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in extending the time under which we would be compelled to operate under these conditions. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. at june 28, 2013, the use of approximately $358 million and $90 million of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, respectively, is subject to an aggregate annual limitation of $45 million pursuant to u.s. tax law. to the extent these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations in the u.s. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership, such as changes in ownership resulting from future repurchases of our ordinary shares, could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. if certain ownership changes occur in the foreseeable future, there may be an additional annual limitation on our ability to use our total u.s. federal and state net operating loss and credit carryforwards of $2.8 billion, $1.8 billion, and $415 million, respectively. if these ownership changes were to occur, we estimate a one-time charge for additional u.s. income tax expense of approximately $400 to $500 million may be recorded in the period such change occurs. this additional income tax expense results from a decrease in our net u.s. deferred tax assets recorded through a combination of the write off of deferred tax assets and associated changes to our valuation allowance. we also estimate that the ensuing additional annual limitation on our ability to use tax attribute carryovers may result in increased u.s. income tax expense associated with such change of approximately $70 to $85 million each year. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk" of this annual report on form 10-k additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating 31 table of contents assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to economic conditions, political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. 32 table of contents dependence on key personnel the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disk drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. global credit and financial market conditions deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments , no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. environmental regulations failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or 33 table of contents more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. new conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, the first such report being due on may 31, 2014. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disk drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. volatile public markets the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part 34 table of contents of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. even if we are able to successfully integrate the business that we acquired from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. 35 table of contents in addition, the chinese ministry of commerce conditioned its approval of the samsung acquisition on our compliance with several on-going requirements, including: adopting measures to keep the samsung hdd brand as a separate competitor to the seagate hdd brand, expanding the samsung hdd production capacity within six months of the decision, and investing at least $800 million per year for three years in r&amp;d in our combined samsung and seagate hdd businesses. compliance with these obligations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in extending the time under which we would be compelled to operate under these conditions. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. at june 28, 2013, the use of approximately $358 million and $90 million of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, respectively, is subject to an aggregate annual limitation of $45 million pursuant to u.s. tax law. to the extent these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations in the u.s. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership, such as changes in ownership resulting from future repurchases of our ordinary shares, could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. if certain ownership changes occur in the foreseeable future, there may be an additional annual limitation on our ability to use our total u.s. federal and state net operating loss and credit carryforwards of $2.8 billion, $1.8 billion, and $415 million, respectively. if these ownership changes were to occur, we estimate a one-time charge for additional u.s. income tax expense of approximately $400 to $500 million may be recorded in the period such change occurs. this additional income tax expense results from a decrease in our net u.s. deferred tax assets recorded through a combination of the write off of deferred tax assets and associated changes to our valuation allowance. we also estimate that the ensuing additional annual limitation on our ability to use tax attribute carryovers may result in increased u.s. income tax expense associated with such change of approximately $70 to $85 million each year. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our company headquarters are located in ireland, while our u.s. executive offices are located in cupertino, california. our principal manufacturing facilities are located in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and minnesota. our principal product development facilities are located in california, colorado, minnesota, singapore and south korea. our leased facilities are occupied under leases that expire at various times through 2023. 36 table of contents our material manufacturing, product development and marketing and administrative facilities at june 28, 2013 are as follows: location building(s) owned or leased approximate square footage primary use united states california owned/leased 895,000 product development and marketing and administrative colorado owned 528,000 product development minnesota owned/leased 1,085,000 manufacture of recording heads and product development oklahoma owned/leased 150,000 administrative europe northern ireland springtown owned 479,000 manufacture of recording heads asia china suzhou owned (1) 1,103,000 manufacture of drives wuxi leased 716,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies malaysia johor owned (1) 631,000 manufacture of substrates penang owned (1) 390,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies singapore woodlands owned (1) 1,404,000 manufacture of media ang mo kio leased 258,000 manufacturing support, product development and administrative science park leased 110,000 product development thailand korat owned 1,716,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies teparuk owned 362,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies korea suwon owned 220,000 product development (1) land leases for these facilities expire at varying dates through 2067. as of june 28, 2013, we owned or leased a total of approximately 11.4 million square feet of space worldwide. we occupied approximately 7.0 million square feet for the purpose of manufacturing, 1.9 million square feet for product development, 1.6 million square feet for marketing and administrative purposes and subleased 0.2 million square feet. included in the 11.4 million square feet of owned or leased space is a total of 0.9 million square feet that is currently unoccupied, primarily as a result of site closures at our facilities in longmont, colorado and ang mo kio (amk), singapore. we believe that our existing properties are in good operating condition and are suitable and adequate for the operations for which they are used. as of june 28, 2013, all of our material manufacturing facilities are operating at normal utilization levels and none of our manufacturing facilities are experiencing significant underutilization. item 3. legal proceedings see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. as of june 28, 2013, the company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. the company determined no material available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of june 28, 2013. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. 58 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 28, 2013. all short-term investments mature in four years or less. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value at june 28, 2013 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 1,528 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,528 $ 1,528 average interest rate 0.07 % 0.07 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 105 $ 150 $ 161 $ 40 $ 13 $ $ 469 $ 478 average interest rate 0.62 % 0.75 % 0.97 % 2.01 % 2.47 % 0.95 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 17 $ 17 $ 15 average interest rate 0.68 % 0.68 % total fixed income $ 1,633 $ 150 $ 161 $ 40 $ 13 $ 17 $ 2,014 $ 2,021 average interest rate 0.11 % 0.75 % 0.97 % 2.01 % 2.47 % 0.68 % 0.28 % debt fixed rate $ 3 $ 2 $ $ 335 $ $ 2,437 $ 2,777 2,860 average interest rate 0.89 % 0.90 % 6.80 % 6.12 % 6.17 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging. all these forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in costs of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal years 2013 and 2012. the table below provides information as of june 28, 2013 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional 59 table of contents amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 20 29.59 $ (1 ) total $ 20 $ (1 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of june 28, 2013, we had not have any counterparty credit exposure related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp") and on certain strategic investments in equity of publicly traded companies. we currently manage our exposure to equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities by investing directly in mutual funds that mirror the employees' investment options. as of june 28, 2013 we continued to hold auction rate securities with a par value of approximately $17 million, all of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. beginning in the march 2008 quarter, these securities have continuously failed to settle at auction. as of june 28, 2013, the estimated fair value of these auction rate securities was $15 million. we believe that the impairments totaling $2 million are temporary as we do not intend to sell these securities and have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of the amortized cost basis. as such, the impairment was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and these securities were classified as long-term investments. 60 table of contentsrisk factors," "item 3. legal proceedings," and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." these statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and are based on management's current views and assumptions. these forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by such statements. such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the uncertainty in global economic conditions as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news; the impact of the variable demand and adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans. additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "item 1a. risk factors" of this form 10-k. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of electronic data storage solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products including solid state hybrid drives ("sshd") and solid state drives ("ssd"). our products are designed for enterprise servers and storage systems in mission critical and nearline applications; client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders ("dvrs"), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. we continue to make strategic investments in order to expand our storage solutions, enter new market adjacencies, and expand our technical expertise. as a result of recent acquisitions, our product and solution portfolio for the enterprise data storage industry includes storage enclosures, integrated application platforms and high performance computing ("hpc") data storage solutions. our storage subsystems support a range of high-speed interconnect technologies to meet demanding cost and performance specifications. our modular subsystem architecture allows us to support many segments within the networked storage market by enabling different specifications of storage subsystem designs to be created from a standard set of interlocking technology modules. in addition to our data storage products and subsystems, we provide data storage services for small to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data and computing platforms. markets the principal markets served by the electronic data storage industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise work loads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. we believe that this will continue to drive demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. these solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased requirements for storage driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital 4 table of contents content, we expect the increased petabyte demand will require further build-out of datacenters by cloud service providers and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. we believe that the demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive demand for the client compute market. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications require less built-in storage, and therefore alternative storage solutions are becoming more prevalent within the client compute market. client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage ("nas"). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs and surveillance systems that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr disk drive capacities. client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits ("asics") and glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. storage services. companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. demand for electronic data storage the continued advancement of cloud, mobile and open source computing are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to this growth are the increased: creation and sharing of all types of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and large amounts of electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as amazon, facebook, gopro, instagram, itunes, linkedin, netflix, pandora and youtube; consumption of digital content through smart phones, tablets, dvrs, and gaming consoles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher capacity storage in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage solutions which we believe will continue to grow in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. 5 table of contents the amounts of data created as well as where and how data is stored continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices, the growth of cloud computing, and the evolving internet of things. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure is also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage power. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for electronic data storage solutions. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry's ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that consume media-rich digital content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. industry supply balance from time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. in early october 2011, floodwaters north of bangkok, thailand inundated many manufacturing industrial parks that contained a number of the factories supporting the hdd industry's supply chain. the hdd industry had concentrated a large portion of its supply chain participants within these industrial parks in an effort to reduce cost and improve logistics. as a result, the inundation of floodwaters into these industrial parks had caused the closure or suspension of production by a number of participants within the hdd supply chain. during the supply chain disruption in fiscal year 2012, we believe demand exceeded supply due to the impact from the flooding in thailand, resulting in an increase in the average selling price ("asp"). the industry's ability to manufacture and ship drives had substantially recovered as of the end of fiscal year 2012. in fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we believe the hdd industry's capacity to manufacture hdds exceeded demand. however, following the impact of the flooding in thailand and further industry consolidation in fiscal year 2012, the hdd industry has maintained improved pricing discipline resulting in benign price erosion in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. 6 table of contents our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second (iops), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. 7 table of contents due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly (e-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, 8 table of contents malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states in minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions, for the enterprise, datacenter, client compute and client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and instant encryption key replacement through our instant erase technology, and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage enterprise performance family. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance family disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 900gb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 600gb. enterprise capacity hdd family. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in a 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factor and in storage capacities of up to 6tb that clock in at 7,200 rpm speeds. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security, sata and sas interfaces. enterprise value hdd family. providing up to 3tb of sata-based high capacity, 3.5-inch energy-efficient enterprise storage, the enterprise value hard disk drive offers low-cost bulk storage designed for vast amounts of unstructured data in the cloud. it features low power for energy efficient operations and ensures reliable operations in 24x7 multi-drive replicated environments. seagate terascale hdd family. available in capacities up to 4tb in a 3.5-inch enterprise-class sata hard drive, the terascale hdd is designed to provide data centers with the storage scalability they need to meet demands in low workload, 24x7 replicated environments. seagate 1200 ssd. available in capacities up to 800gb, the 1200 ssd features 12gb per second sas, and delivers the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. client compute laptop and mobile hdds and sshds. our family of laptop drives ship in a variety of form factors (5mm to 9.5mm drive height), capacities (250gb to 2tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support 9 table of contents mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops to tablets, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. spinpoint sata mobile family. our spinpoint m8 2.5-inch 5,400 rpm mobile computing disk drives come in storage capacities of up to 2tb and are marketed and sold under the samsung spinpoint brand name. desktop hdd and sshds. our 3.5-inch family of desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 4tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers, workstations and personal external storage devices. client non-compute video 3.5 and video 2.5 hdds. we sell our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch video hdds for use in video applications like dvr's and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. sv35 and surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple hd streams and capacities up to 4tb. nas hdds. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by nas systems, and include nasworks with custom-built error recovery controls, power settings, and vibration tolerance. we ship external backup storage solutions under our backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the samsung and lacie brand names. these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 5tb and 2tb, respectively. in addition, we ship the wireless plus wireless drive for use with secondary mobile devices utilizing 2.5-inch 500gb, 1tb and 2tb drives as well as samsung wireless utilizing a 2.5-inch 1.5tb drive. we also ship network attached storage (nas) solutions under our central, nas, nas pro and rackmount nas product lines. these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch disk drives; our central products are available in capacities up to 4tb, and our nas products are available in capacities up to 40tb. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. the following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended june 27, 2014 june 28, 2013 june 29, 2012 revenues by channel (%) oem 68 % 68 % 72 % distributors 20 % 21 % 21 % retail 12 % 11 % 7 % revenues by geography (%) (1) americas 27 % 27 % 26 % emea 19 % 19 % 19 % asia pacific 54 % 54 % 55 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. 10 table of contents oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, dell inc. accounted for approximately 13%, 13% and 15% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 13%, 10% and 14% of consolidated revenue, respectively. see "item 1a. risk factors-risks related to our business-we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications, but have in the past few years also competed with manufacturers of solid-state drives. the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. principal disk drive competitors. following further industry consolidation during fiscal year 2012, three disk drive companies remain: seagate, selling the seagate and samsung brands; western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries; and toshiba corporation other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and ssds used in mobile applications such as tablets, notebooks and lower capacity hand held devices in addition to ssds used in enterprise applications for rapid processing and high volume transactions. additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. 11 table of contents price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") have been more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. in fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we believe the hdd industry's capacity to manufacture hdds exceeded demand. however, following industry consolidation during fiscal year 2012, the hdd industry has maintained improved pricing discipline resulting in benign price erosion in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally those disk drive manufacturers that are able to introduce new products first benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,226 million, $1,133 million and $1,006 million, respectively, which represented 9%, 8% and 7% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. 12 table of contents patents and licenses as of june 27, 2014, we had 4,962 u.s. patents and 1,204 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,236 u.s. and 1,112 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have 13 table of contents been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("svhcs") in products. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at june 27, 2014, we employed approximately 52,100 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 41,400 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 13. business segment and geographic information." corporate information on july 3, 2010, we consummated a reorganization pursuant to which seagate technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland, became the publicly traded parent of the seagate corporate family. prior to the reorganization our publicly traded parent was seagate technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com . we make available, free of charge at the "investors" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, 14 table of contents current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 7, 2014. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 57 chairman and chief executive officer jamie lerner 44 president, cloud systems and solutions, william d. mosley 47 president, operations and technology albert a. "rocky" pimentel 59 president, global markets and customers patrick j. o'malley 52 executive vice president, chief financial officer kenneth m. massaroni 53 executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer d. kurt richarz 53 executive vice president, sales mark re 54 senior vice president, chief technology officer douglas dehaan 56 general manager, samsung hdd brand of products david h. morton jr. 42 senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo. mr. luczo, 57, has served as our ceo since january 2009 and as chairman of the board since 2002. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of seagate technology (seagate technology plc's predecessor) and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board as a director of seagate technology. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 2004, but remained as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. mr. luczo also served as our president from january 2009 until october 2013. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo served on the board of directors of microsoft corporation from may 2012 to march 2014. jamie lerner. mr. lerner, 44, has served as our president of cloud systems and solutions since march 2014. prior to that, mr. lerner served as senior vice president and general manager of the cloud and systems management technology group at cisco systems, inc. ("cisco") from november 2012 until february 2014. mr. lerner also previously served as vice president and general manager of cisco's network management technology group between october 2011 and november 2012 and as the vice president and general manager of the service provider management applications business unit at cisco between november 2009 and october 2011. prior to joining cisco, mr. lerner served as the founder, president, and ceo of cittio inc., an enterprise software company, from 2002 through 2009. william d. mosley. mr. mosley, 47, has served as our president, operations and technology since october 2013 and as executive vice president, operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. 15 table of contents albert a. "rocky" pimentel. mr. pimentel, 59, has served as our president of global markets and customers since october 2013 and as executive vice president, chief sales and marketing officer from april 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, mr. pimentel served as a director of seagate from 2009 until his resignation from the board of directors in april 2011. mr. pimentel served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer ("cfo") at mcafee, inc., from 2008 until he retired in august 2010. he served as the executive vice president and cfo of glu mobile from 2004 to 2008. prior to joining glu mobile, mr. pimentel served as executive vice president and cfo at zone labs from 2003 to 2004, which was acquired by check point software in 2004. patrick j. o'malley. mr. o'malley, 52, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as our senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008. prior to that, he was our senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005. mr. o'malley was appointed to the board of directors of e2open, inc. in january 2012. kenneth m. massaroni. mr. massaroni, 53, was appointed our executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer in july 2011. prior to that, he served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from april 2008 through july 2011; vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008; and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. d. kurt richarz. mr. richarz, 53, has served as our executive vice president, sales and marketing since march 2011. prior to that, he served as our executive vice president, sales from may 2008 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales and customer service operations from may 2006 to may 2008; senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008, and vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007. mr. richarz served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales at maxtor corporation, from 2002 until we acquired maxtor corporation in 2006. mark re. mr. re, 54, has served as our senior vice president, research and development since july 2013. prior to that, he served as our vice president, research, from august 2003 to august 2006. mr. re currently serves on the scientific advisory board for the data storage institute, as well as on the pittsburgh technology council and the advanced storage technology consortium. douglas dehaan. mr. dehaan, 56, has been our general manager, samsung hdd products since september 2012. prior to that, he served as our senior vice president, operations and materials, from february 2009 until september 2012; senior vice president of quality from 2008 to 2009; and senior vice president of product and process development, core products, from 2003 to 2008. david h. morton jr. mr. morton, 42, has served as our senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since april 2014 and our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from october 2009 to april 2014; vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business changes in the macroeconomic environment have negatively impacted, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. continuing high unemployment rates, low levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence and decreased consumer and enterprise spending in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. our industries are highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product introductions, substantial price erosion and lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when supply exceeds demand for a particular product. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. our principal sources of competition include: disk drive manufacturers, such as western digital corporation and toshiba; companies providing storage subsystems and components to oems; electronic manufacturing services ("ems") companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise data storage marketplace; other high performance computing ("hpc") data storage providers; collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of ems, contract electronic manufacturing ("cem") or emerging technology companies. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in 17 table of contents performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operation. the markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. this could lower the barriers to entry to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large ems and cem companies. commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. if our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers, we will have difficulty competing against the larger ems and cem companies. if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; 18 table of contents any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. we attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. our customers' estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our major customers decide to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, this is likely to result in reduced total revenues for that quarter. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer requirements and our market share. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; 19 table of contents uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, the united kingdom, or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. 20 table of contents once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the severe flooding in thailand in october 2011, which had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. 21 table of contents if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of our products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual. we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as 22 table of contents distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of our branded solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions. our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. 23 table of contents as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. in addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. we invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. these factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may adversely impact our results of operations. if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. our efforts to make our operations more efficient may result in restructuring and other charges. increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. 24 table of contents due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. 25 table of contents servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our ordinary shares. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment 26 table of contents candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and solutions business. we have made and are continuing to make investments to expand and develop our cloud systems and solutions business, including our recent acquisition of xyratex ltd ("xyratex"), a data storage technology company. our cloud systems and solutions business is subject to the following risks: the cloud systems and solutions market may develop more slowly than we expect; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; our cloud systems and solutions business generally has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and growth in this business is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our cloud computing business as anticipated. in addition, our growth in this sector may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. 27 table of contents we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies" contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our ip rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our ip rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other ip rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; or our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. 28 table of contents furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. we are heavily dependent on our proprietary technology and our competitors may gain access to this technology. we depend heavily on our proprietary technology and rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property and expertise. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures. despite these efforts, we cannot give assurances that others will not gain access to our trade secrets or that we can fully protect our intellectual property. in addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries in which we operate. nor can we guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop comparable technologies. we cannot rely on our patents to provide us with any significant competitive advantage. failure to protect our proprietary rights could significantly harm our financial condition. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our 29 table of contents business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. our international operations subject us to risks related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital, health-related risks, and access to personnel. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. see "item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the 30 table of contents possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 31 table of contents our international operations subject us to risks related to economic conditions, political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. 32 table of contents we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. new conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, the first such report of which was filed on may 30, 2014. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. 33 table of contents because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor 34 table of contents disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. even if we are able to successfully integrate the business that we acquired from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. in addition, the chinese ministry of commerce conditioned its approval of the samsung acquisition on our compliance with several on-going requirements, including: adopting measures to keep the samsung hdd brand as a separate competitor to the seagate hdd brand, expanding the samsung hdd production capacity within six months of the decision, and investing at least $800 million per year for three years in r&amp;d in our combined samsung and seagate hdd businesses. compliance with these obligations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in extending the time under which we would be compelled to operate under these conditions. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. at june 27, 2014, the use of approximately $376 million and $90 million of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, respectively, is subject to an aggregate annual limitation of $46 million pursuant to u.s. tax law. to the extent these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations in the u.s. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership, such as changes in ownership resulting from future repurchases of our ordinary shares, could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. if certain ownership changes occur in the foreseeable future, there may be an additional annual limitation on our ability to use our total u.s. federal and state net operating loss and credit carryforwards of $2.9 billion, $1.8 billion, and $429 million, respectively. if these ownership changes were to occur, we estimate a one-time charge for additional u.s. income tax expense of approximately $400 million to $500 million may be recorded in the period such 35 table of contents change occurs. this additional income tax expense results from a decrease in our net u.s. deferred tax assets recorded through a combination of the write off of deferred tax assets and associated changes to our valuation allowance. we also estimate that the ensuing additional annual limitation on our ability to use tax attribute carryovers may result in increased u.s. income tax expense associated with such change of approximately $70 million to $85 million each year. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the 30 table of contents possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 31 table of contents our international operations subject us to risks related to economic conditions, political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in various regions and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. 32 table of contents we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. new conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, the first such report of which was filed on may 30, 2014. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. 33 table of contents because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor 34 table of contents disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. if we do not realize the expected benefits of our strategic alignment with samsung, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired. we may not achieve the desired benefits from our strategic alignment with samsung. even if we are able to successfully integrate the business that we acquired from samsung into our business, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and growth that we anticipate from this transaction in the timeframe we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including but not limited to: the possibility that the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume in the transaction; and the risk of intellectual property disputes with respect to the acquired assets. in addition, the chinese ministry of commerce conditioned its approval of the samsung acquisition on our compliance with several on-going requirements, including: adopting measures to keep the samsung hdd brand as a separate competitor to the seagate hdd brand, expanding the samsung hdd production capacity within six months of the decision, and investing at least $800 million per year for three years in r&amp;d in our combined samsung and seagate hdd businesses. compliance with these obligations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in extending the time under which we would be compelled to operate under these conditions. as a result of these risks, the transaction may not contribute to our earnings as we expected, we may not achieve expected cost synergies when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. at june 27, 2014, the use of approximately $376 million and $90 million of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, respectively, is subject to an aggregate annual limitation of $46 million pursuant to u.s. tax law. to the extent these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations in the u.s. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership, such as changes in ownership resulting from future repurchases of our ordinary shares, could put limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. if certain ownership changes occur in the foreseeable future, there may be an additional annual limitation on our ability to use our total u.s. federal and state net operating loss and credit carryforwards of $2.9 billion, $1.8 billion, and $429 million, respectively. if these ownership changes were to occur, we estimate a one-time charge for additional u.s. income tax expense of approximately $400 million to $500 million may be recorded in the period such 35 table of contents change occurs. this additional income tax expense results from a decrease in our net u.s. deferred tax assets recorded through a combination of the write off of deferred tax assets and associated changes to our valuation allowance. we also estimate that the ensuing additional annual limitation on our ability to use tax attribute carryovers may result in increased u.s. income tax expense associated with such change of approximately $70 million to $85 million each year. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 36 table of contents item 2. properties our company headquarters are located in ireland, while our u.s. executive offices are located in cupertino, california. our principal manufacturing facilities are located in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and minnesota. our principal product development facilities are located in california, colorado, minnesota, singapore and south korea. our leased facilities are occupied under leases that expire at various times through 2082. our material manufacturing, product development and marketing and administrative facilities at june 27, 2014 are as follows: location building(s) owned or leased approximate square footage primary use united states california owned/leased 1,051,000 product development and marketing and administrative colorado owned 528,000 product development minnesota owned/leased 1,085,000 manufacture of recording heads and product development europe northern ireland springtown owned 479,000 manufacture of recording heads asia china suzhou owned/leased (1) 1,103,000 manufacture of drives wuxi leased 718,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies malaysia johor owned (1) 631,000 manufacture of substrates penang owned (1) 402,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies seremban owned/leased (1) 386,000 manufacture of test equipment and systems singapore woodlands owned (1) 1,404,000 manufacture of media science park leased 110,000 product development thailand korat owned 1,723,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies teparuk owned 362,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies korea suwon owned 220,000 product development (1) land leases for these facilities expire at varying dates through 2067. as of june 27, 2014, we owned or leased a total of approximately 12.2 million square feet of space worldwide. we occupied approximately 7.5 million square feet for the purpose of manufacturing, 1.9 million square feet for product development, 2.1 million square feet for marketing and administrative purposes. included in the 12.2 million square feet of owned or leased space is a total of 0.7 million square feet that is currently unoccupied, primarily as a result of site closures at our facilities in longmont, colorado. we believe that our existing properties are in good operating condition and are suitable and adequate for the operations for which they are used. as of june 27, 2014, all of our material manufacturing facilities are operating at normal utilization levels and none of our manufacturing facilities are experiencing significant underutilization. item 3. legal proceedings see " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. as of june 27, 2014, the company had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. the company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of june 27, 2014. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 27, 2014. all short-term investments mature in four years or less. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value at june 27, 2014 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 2,309 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,309 $ 2,309 average interest rate 0.27 % 0.27 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 19 $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ 20 $ 20 average interest rate 0.18 % 4.47 % 0.40 % total fixed income $ 2,328 $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ 2,329 $ 2,329 average interest rate 0.27 % 4.47 % 0.27 % debt fixed rate $ $ $ 335 $ $ 800 $ 2,785 $ 3,920 $ 4,060 average interest rate 6.80 % 3.75 % 5.36 % 5.15 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2014 and 2013, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging. all these forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not 60 table of contents have any material net gains (losses) recognized in costs of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal years 2014 and 2013. the table below provides information as of june 27, 2014 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 143 32.83 $ 2 british pound sterling 25 1.55 3 malaysian ringitt 9 3.32 total $ 177 $ 5 (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of june 27, 2014, we had no material credit exposure related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). during the fiscal year 2014, the company entered into a total return swap ("trs") in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. the company pays a floating rate, based on libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. 61 table of contentsrisk factors" of this annual report on form 10k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of electronic data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products including solid state hybrid drives ("sshd"), solid state drives ("ssd"), pcie cards and sata controllers. our storage technology portfolio also includes storage subsystems, high performance computing (hpc) solutions, and data storage services. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand-based flash memory. in addition to hdds and ssds, solid-state hybrid drives (sshds) combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an ssd cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our products are designed for enterprise servers and storage systems in mission critical and nearline applications; client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders ("dvrs"), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems, digital media systems and surveillance systems. our product and solution portfolio for the enterprise data storage industry includes storage enclosures, integrated application platforms and high performance computing ("hpc") data storage solutions. our storage subsystems support a range of high-speed interconnect technologies to meet demanding cost and performance specifications. our modular subsystem architecture allows us to support many segments within the networked storage market by enabling different specifications of storage subsystem designs to be created from a standard set of interlocking technology modules. our data storage services provide online backup, data protection and recovery solutions for small to medium-sized businesses. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data and computing platforms. markets the principal markets served by the electronic data storage industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as dedicated storage area networks and hyperscale cloud storage environments. enterprise data centers run solutions which are designed for mission critical performance and nearline high capacity applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise work loads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks. our storage solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. 4 table of contents nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased requirements for storage driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital content, we expect the increased exabyte demand will require further build-out of datacenters by cloud service providers and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. enterprise sas ssds are designed to deliver superior performance, reliability and enterprise features to meet the demands of i/o-intensive applications, with potential for substantial power savings. pcie accelerator cards are designed to optimize enterprise applications with a persistent, high-performance, high-capacity memory design. accelerated flash also targets flash and software to accelerate any server virtualized deployment and moves any big data to the realm of real time. from industry solutions perspective, pcie cards are changing the storage architecture in many industries including the financial sector, government, telecommunications and media and entertainment. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications ranging from traditional laptops, tablets, convertible systems, and gaming consoles. we believe that the demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to maintain demand for the client compute market. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent and accessible, some client compute applications rely less on built-in storage, which is supplemented by cloud computing solutions and branded external hard drives. client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage ("nas"). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs and surveillance systems that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external storage and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr devices. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. cloud systems and solutions. we define cloud systems and solutions as applications that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of high performance computing, scale-out storage solutions, modular systems, remote on-line digital storage archival offerings, and backup &amp; recovery products and services. systems can contain hdds and ssds and can offer file management systems, software, and even compute power. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits ("asics") and glass substrates. hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies, such as original equipment manufacturers ("oem"), that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. 5 table of contents storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. hyperscale data centers. increasingly, large hyperscale data center companies are designing their own storage subsystems and having those built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market and driving innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of the large storage system vendors. demand for electronic data storage the continued advancement of the cloud, the proliferation of a variety of mobile devices globally, development of the internet of things, increasingly pervasive use of video surveillance, evolution of consumer electronic devices, and enterprise use of big data analytics are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to this growth include: creation, sharing, and consumption of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video, and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; creation, aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as facebook&reg;, instagram&reg;, itunes&reg;, linkedin&reg;, netflix&reg;, pandora&reg;, google&reg; and youtube&reg;; new surveillance systems which feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; creation and collection of data through the evolution of the internet of things ecosystem, big data analytics and new technology trends such as self-driving cars and drones; build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by cloud service providers and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and volume of content being created requires greater storage, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity storage devices in order to store, manage, distribute, analyze and backup such content. we expect this to support the growth in demand for electronic data storage solutions in developed and emerging economies well into the future. the amount of data created as well as where and how data is stored continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices, the growth of cloud computing, and the evolving internet of things. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for electronic data storage solutions going forward. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise, client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, and the data intensive client non-compute markets will continue to 6 table of contents be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry's ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that both consume media-rich digital content streamed from the cloud and create rich digital content that is stored in the cloud, increases the demand for high capacity hard disk drives in enterprise nearline applications. industry supply balance from time to time the hdd industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second (iops), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. 7 table of contents manufacturing we design and produce our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing cost by: employing manufacturing automation; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capabilities. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies (pcbas) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard 8 table of contents interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (sata); small computer system interface (scsi); serial attached scsi (sas); or fibre channel (fc) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly (e-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for the enterprise, data center, client compute and client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features, and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage enterprise performance hdds. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 1.8tb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 600gb. enterprise capacity and archive hdds. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors and in storage capacities of up to 6tb that rotate at 7,200 rpm speeds. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency, integrated security, and sata and sas interfaces. our archive hdds 9 table of contents provide up to 8tb of low-cost storage designed specifically for active archive storage environments in cloud data centers where very low cost and power are paramount. our kinetic hdds are the world's first ethernet-connected hdd with an open source object application program interface ("api") designed specifically for hyper scale and scale-out object storage environments. enterprise ssds. available in capacities up to 800gb, the ssd features 12gb per second sas, and delivers the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. we also offer nytro family of accelerator cards with capacity up to 4 tb. client compute desktop hdds and sshds. our 3.5-inch desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 4tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. mobile hdds and sshds. our family of laptop drives ship in a variety of form factors (5mm to 9.5mm drive height), capacities (250gb to 2tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops, tablets, convertible systems, and gaming consoles, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. client non-compute video hdds. our video hdds are used in video applications like dvr's and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple hard drive ("hd") streams and capacities up to 6tb. nas hdds. our network attached storage (nas) drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built error recovery controls, power settings, and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 6tb. branded solutions. our external backup storage solutions are shipped under the backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the samsung and lacie brand names. these product lines are available in capacities ranging from 500gb to 8tb, respectively. our seagate and samsung wireless drives provide tablet and smartphone users with additional storage for media content, with capacities up to 2tb. our nas and personal cloud solutions provide centralized network storage in capacities up to 40tb and secure, anywhere file access for users on-the-go. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. 10 table of contents the following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended july 3, 2015 june 27, 2014 june 28, 2013 revenues by channel (%) oem 71 % 68 % 68 % distributors 17 % 20 % 21 % retail 12 % 12 % 11 % revenues by geography (%) (1) americas 28 % 27 % 27 % emea 17 % 19 % 19 % asia pacific 55 % 54 % 54 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, dell inc. accounted for approximately 14%, 13% and 13% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 12%, 13% and 10% of consolidated revenue, respectively. see "item 1a. risk factors-risks related to our business-we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications, in addition to manufacturers of solid-state drives and pcie accelerator cards. the markets that we compete in are competitive. disk drive manufacturers compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide ssds and pcie technology. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. 11 table of contents principal disk drive competitors. there are three companies in the electronic data storage industry that manufacture disk drives: seagate, selling the seagate, lacie, and samsung brands; western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries; and toshiba corporation other competitors. we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") have been more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we believe the hdd industry experienced benign price erosion in fiscal years 2013, 2014 and moderate price erosion in fiscal year 2015. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in fiscal years 2013 and 2014, our industry experienced muted seasonal patterns as supply and demand were relatively in balance. however, we believe fiscal year 2015 reflected a seasonal pattern consistent with historical patterns. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve 12 table of contents different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,353 million, $1,226 million and $1,133 million, respectively, which represented 10%, 9% and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of july 3, 2015, we had 5,194 u.s. patents and 1,207 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,351 u.s. and 1,296 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our 13 table of contents operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("svhcs") in products. employees at july 3, 2015, we employed approximately 52,350 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 41,800 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 13. business segment and geographic information." corporate information seagate technology public limited company, is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. 14 table of contents available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the "investors" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media, and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 11, 2015. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 58 chairman and chief executive officer philip g. brace 44 president, cloud systems and electronics solutions william d. mosley 48 president, operations and technology albert a. "rocky" pimentel 60 president, global markets and customers patrick j. o'malley 53 executive vice president, chief financial officer kenneth m. massaroni 54 executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer mark re 55 senior vice president, chief technology officer douglas dehaan 57 general manager, samsung hdd brand of products david h. morton jr. 43 senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer stephen j. luczo. mr. luczo, 58, has served as our ceo since january 2009 and as chairman of the board since 2002. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of seagate technology (seagate technology plc's predecessor) and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board as a director of seagate technology. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 2004, but remained as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. mr. luczo also served as our president from january 2009 until october 2013. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, 15 table of contents stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo served on the board of directors of microsoft corporation from may 2012 to march 2014. william d. mosley. mr. mosley, 48, has served as our president, operations and technology since october 2013 and as executive vice president, operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. albert a. "rocky" pimentel. mr. pimentel, 60, has served as our president of global markets and customers since october 2013 and as executive vice president, chief sales and marketing officer from april 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, mr. pimentel served as a director of seagate from 2009 until his resignation from the board of directors in april 2011. mr. pimentel served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer ("cfo") at mcafee, inc., from 2008 until he retired in august 2010. he served as the executive vice president and cfo of glu mobile from 2004 to 2008. prior to joining glu mobile, mr. pimentel served as executive vice president and cfo at zone labs from 2003 to 2004, which was acquired by check point software in 2004. philip g. brace. mr. brace, 44, has served as our president, cloud systems and electronics solutions since july 22, 2015. mr. brace joined seagate in september 2, 2014 as executive vice president and chief technology officer of silicon solutions, and was promoted to interim president of cloud systems and electronics solutions on april 30, 2015. he was previously employed by lsi corporation ("lsi") from august 2005 through september 2014. at lsi, he was the executive vice president of the storage solutions group from july 2012 to september 2014, senior vice president and general manager from january 2009 to july 2012, and senior vice president of corporate planning and marketing from august 2005 to january 2009. patrick j. o'malley. mr. o'malley, 53, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2008. previously, he served as our senior vice president, finance from 2005 to august 2008. prior to that, he was our senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005. kenneth m. massaroni. mr. massaroni, 54, was appointed our executive vice president, general counsel and chief administrative officer in july 2011. prior to that, he served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from april 2008 through july 2011; vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008; and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, mr. massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta inc. from 1997 to 2006. mark re. mr. re, 55, has served as our senior vice president, research and development since july 2013. prior to that, he served as our vice president, research, from august 2003 to august 2006. mr. re currently serves on the scientific advisory board for the data storage institute, as well as on the pittsburgh technology council and the advanced storage technology consortium. douglas dehaan. mr. dehaan, 57, has been our general manager, samsung hdd products since september 2012. prior to that, he served as our senior vice president, operations and materials, from february 2009 until september 2012; senior vice president of quality from 2008 to 2009; and senior vice president of product and process development, core products, from 2003 to 2008. david h. morton jr. mr. morton, 43, has served as our senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer since april 2014 and our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from october 2009 to april 2014; vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. we attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. our customers' estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our major customers decide to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, this is likely to result in reduced total revenues for that quarter. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer requirements and our market share. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, the united kingdom, or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; 17 table of contents the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective 18 table of contents compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. our industries are highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product introductions, substantial price erosion and lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when supply exceeds demand for a particular product. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. our principal sources of competition include: disk drive manufacturers, such as western digital corporation and toshiba; companies providing storage subsystems and components to oems; electronic manufacturing services ("ems") companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise data storage marketplace; other high performance computing ("hpc") data storage providers; collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of ems, contract electronic manufacturing ("cem") or emerging technology companies. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced solid state drives (ssds) for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operation. the markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. this could lower the barriers to 19 table of contents entry to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large ems and cem companies. commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. if our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers, we will have difficulty competing against the larger ems and cem companies. if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of our products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual. increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with 20 table of contents lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and solutions business. we have made and are continuing to make investments to expand and develop our cloud systems and solutions business. our cloud systems and solutions business is subject to the following risks: the cloud systems and solutions market may develop more slowly than we expect; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; our cloud systems and solutions business generally has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and growth in this business is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our cloud computing business as anticipated. in addition, our growth in this sector may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. changes in the macroeconomic environment have negatively impacted, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. continuing high unemployment rates, low levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence and decreased consumer and enterprise spending in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. our efforts to make our operations more efficient may result in restructuring and other charges. 21 table of contents our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our 22 table of contents results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions. our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. in addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. we invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. these factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may adversely impact our results of operations. we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of our branded solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. 23 table of contents this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the severe flooding in thailand in october 2011, which had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, 24 table of contents equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; 25 table of contents our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. 26 table of contents the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, to successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. our growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to 27 table of contents be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we make or, if we do, how long it will take to achieve such benefits. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies" contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our ip rights. in the past, we have been involved in 28 table of contents significant and expensive disputes regarding our ip rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other ip rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; or our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. we are heavily dependent on our proprietary technology and our competitors may gain access to this technology. we depend heavily on our proprietary technology and rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property and expertise. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures. despite these efforts, we cannot give assurances that others will not gain access to our trade secrets or that we can fully protect our intellectual property. in addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries in which we operate. nor can we guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop comparable technologies. we cannot rely on our patents to provide us with any significant competitive advantage. failure to protect our proprietary rights could significantly harm our financial condition. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer 29 table of contents programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. our international operations subject us to risks related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital, health-related risks, and access to personnel. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. 30 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. see "item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in response, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project recommendations, due out by the end of calendar year 2015, will reshape international tax rules for countries to implement. these potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate 31 table of contents multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 32 table of contents deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, 33 table of contents available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly, moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the most recent report was filed on may 29, 2015. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at 34 table of contents competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in response, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project recommendations, due out by the end of calendar year 2015, will reshape international tax rules for countries to implement. these potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate 31 table of contents multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 32 table of contents deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, 33 table of contents available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly, moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the most recent report was filed on may 29, 2015. these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at 34 table of contents competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 35 table of contents item 2. properties our company headquarters are located in ireland, while our u.s. executive offices are located in cupertino, california. our principal manufacturing facilities are located in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and the united states. our principal product development facilities are located in california, colorado, minnesota, singapore and south korea. our leased facilities are occupied under leases that expire at various times through 2082. our main material manufacturing, product development and marketing and administrative facilities at july 3, 2015 are as follows: location building(s) owned or leased approximate square footage primary use united states california owned/leased 1,017,000 product development and marketing and administrative colorado owned/leased 576,000 product development minnesota owned/leased 1,144,000 manufacture of recording heads and product development europe northern ireland springtown owned 479,000 manufacture of recording heads asia china suzhou owned (1) 1,103,000 manufacture of drives wuxi leased 704,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies malaysia johor owned (1) 631,000 manufacture of substrates penang owned (1) 402,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies seremban owned/leased (1) 386,000 manufacture of test equipment and systems singapore woodlands owned/leased (1) 1,504,000 manufacture of media science park owned/leased 410,000 product development amk leased 387,000 marketing and administrative thailand korat owned/leased 1,752,000 manufacture of drives and drive subassemblies teparuk owned/leased 425,000 manufacture of drive subassemblies korea suwon owned 220,000 product development (1) land leases for these facilities expire at varying dates through 2067. as of july 3, 2015, we owned or leased a total of approximately 13.3 million square feet of space worldwide. we occupied approximately 7.5 million square feet for the purpose of manufacturing, 2.5 million square feet for product development, 2.5 million square feet for marketing and administrative purposes. included in the 13.3 million square feet of owned or leased space is a total of 0.8 million square feet that is currently unoccupied, primarily as a result of site closures at our facilities in longmont, colorado. we believe that our existing properties are in good operating condition and are suitable and adequate for the operations for which they are used. as of july 3, 2015, none of our manufacturing facilities are experiencing significant underutilization. item 3. legal proceedings see " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. as of july 3, 2015, the company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. the company determined no material available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of july 3, 2015. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 3, 2015. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value at july 3, 2015 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 2,063 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,063 $ 2,063 average interest rate 0.17 % 0.17 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ $ $ 5 $ $ $ 1 $ 6 $ 6 average interest rate 9.30 % 4.30 % 8.47 % total fixed income $ 2,063 $ $ 5 $ $ $ 1 $ 2,069 $ 2,069 average interest rate 0.17 % 9.30 % 4.30 % 0.19 % debt fixed rate $ $ $ $ 800 $ $ 3,358 $ 4,158 $ 4,175 average interest rate 3.75 % 5.03 % 4.78 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging . all these foreign currency forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in cost of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the fiscal years 2015 and 2014. 60 table of contents the table below provides information as of july 3, 2015 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 66 33.25 $ (1 ) chinese renminbi 21 6.23 malaysian ringitt 27 3.74 singapore dollars 65 1.29 (2 ) great british pound 35 1.46 2 euro 13 1.10 total $ 227 $ (1 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. as of july 3, 2015, we had no material credit exposure related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). in fiscal year 2014, the company entered into a total return swap ("trs") in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. the company pays a floating rate, based on libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. 61 table of contentsrisk factors" of this annual report on form 10k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of electronic data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products including solid state hybrid drives ("sshd"), solid state drives ("ssd"), pcie cards and sata controllers. our storage technology portfolio also includes storage subsystems, and high performance computing ("hpc") solutions. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand-based flash memory. in addition to hdds and ssds, sshds combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an ssd cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders ("dvrs"), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems, digital media systems and surveillance systems. our cloud systems and solutions builds on the seagate legacy to extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. our approach to data management supports hpc, open source and software-defined solutions. our portfolio includes hpc storage solutions, modular original equipment manufacturers ("oem") storage systems and scale-out storage systems. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data and computing platforms. markets the principal markets served by the electronic data storage industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as dedicated storage area networks and hyperscale cloud storage environments. enterprise data centers run solutions which are designed for mission critical performance and nearline high capacity applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise work loads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks. our storage solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased requirements for storage driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital 5 table of contents content, we expect the increased exabyte demand will require further build-out of data centers by cloud service providers and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. enterprise sas ssds are designed to deliver superior performance, reliability and enterprise features to meet the demands of i/o-intensive applications, with potential for substantial power savings. pcie accelerator cards are designed to optimize enterprise applications with a persistent, high-performance, high-capacity memory design. accelerated flash also targets flash and software to accelerate any server virtualized deployment and moves any big data to the realm of real time. from industry solutions perspective, pcie cards are changing the storage architecture in many industries including the financial sector, government, telecommunications and media and entertainment. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications ranging from traditional laptops, tablets and convertible systems. we believe that the demand resulting from the proliferation of digital content will continue to maintain demand for the client compute market. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent and accessible, some client compute applications rely less on built-in storage, which is supplemented by cloud computing solutions and branded external hard drives. client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network attached storage ("nas"). disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as dvrs and surveillance systems that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external storage and nas devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr devices. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. cloud systems and solutions. we define cloud systems and solutions as applications that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of hpc, scale-out storage solutions and modular systems. systems can contain hdds and ssds and can offer file management systems, software, and even compute power. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits ("asics"). hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies, such as oems, that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications and cloud service providers ("csp") that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of hpc, scale-out storage solutions and modular systems that are also included in this category. storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. hyperscale data centers. increasingly, large hyperscale data center companies are designing their own storage subsystems and having those built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market and driving innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of the large storage system vendors. 6 table of contents demand for electronic data storage the continued advancement of the cloud, the proliferation of a variety of mobile devices globally, development of the internet of things ("iot"), increasingly pervasive use of video surveillance, evolution of consumer electronic devices, and enterprise use of big data analytics are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to this growth include: creation, sharing, and consumption of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video, and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; creation, aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as facebook&reg;, instagram&reg;, itunes&reg;, netflix&reg;, google&reg; and youtube&reg;; new surveillance systems which feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; creation and collection of data through the evolution of the iot ecosystem, big data analytics and new technology trends such as self-driving cars and drones; build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by cloud service providers and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and volume of content being created requires greater storage, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity storage devices in order to store, manage, distribute, analyze and backup such content. we expect this to support the growth in demand for electronic data storage solutions in developed and emerging economies well into the future. the amount of data created as well as where and how data is stored continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices, the growth of cloud computing, and the evolving iot. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for electronic data storage solutions going forward. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, and the data intensive client non-compute markets will continue to be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry's ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that both consume media-rich digital content streamed from the cloud and create rich digital content that is stored in the cloud, increases the demand for high capacity hard disk drives in enterprise nearline applications. 7 table of contents we also believe that as hard disk drive capacities continue to increase, unit demand does not reflect the increase in exabytes demand. in recent years, this trend has resulted in demand for fewer units, but with higher average capacity per drive. industry supply balance from time to time the hdd industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes ("gb") or terabytes ("tb"), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ("rpm"), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second ("iops"), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. 8 table of contents manufacturing we design and produce our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing cost by: employing manufacturing automation; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capabilities. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies ("pcbas") are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture ("sata"); small computer system interface 9 table of contents ("scsi"); serial attached scsi ("sas"); or fibre channel ("fc") to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly ("e-block") that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for the enterprise, data center, client compute and client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features, and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage enterprise performance hdds. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 1.8tb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 600gb. enterprise capacity and archive hdds. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors and in storage capacities of up to 10tb that rotate at 7,200 rpm speeds. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency, integrated security, and sata and sas interfaces. our archive hdds 10 table of contents provide up to 8tb of low-cost storage designed specifically for active archive storage environments in cloud data centers where very low cost and power are paramount. enterprise ssds. available in capacities up to 3.8tb, the ssd features 12gb per second sas, and delivers the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. we also offer our nytro family of accelerator cards with capacities up to 4tb. client compute desktop hdds and sshds. our 3.5-inch desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 8tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. mobile hdds and sshds. our family of laptop drives ship in a variety of form factors (5mm to 9.5mm drive height), capacities (up to 4tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops, convertible systems and external storage, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. client non-compute video hdds. our video hdds are used in video applications like dvr's and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple hard drive ("hd") streams and capacities up to 10tb. nas hdds. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built error recovery controls, power settings, and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 10tb. branded solutions. our external backup storage solutions are shipped under the backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the maxtor and lacie brand names. these product lines are available in capacities up to 48tb, respectively. our seagate and lacie wireless drives provide tablet and smartphone users with additional storage for media content, with capacities up to 2tb. our nas and personal cloud solutions provide centralized network storage in capacities up to 32tb and secure, anywhere file access for users on-the-go. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. 11 table of contents the following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended july 1, 2016 july 3, 2015 june 27, 2014 revenues by channel (%) oem 70 % 71 % 68 % distributors 16 % 17 % 20 % retail 14 % 12 % 12 % revenues by geography (%) (1) americas 29 % 28 % 27 % emea 17 % 17 % 19 % asia pacific 54 % 55 % 54 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, dell inc. accounted for approximately 12%, 14% and 13% of consolidated revenue, respectively. in fiscal year 2015 and 2014, hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 12% and 13% of consolidated revenue, respectively. in fiscal year 2016, hp inc., formerly known as hewlett-packard company, completed its separation with hewlett packard enterprise company, and each company accounted for less than 10% of our consolidated revenue. see "item 1a. risk factors-risks related to our business-we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications. we are also a supplier of enterprise ssds, pcie accelerator cards, cloud storage solutions, hdd test equipment, and storage subsystems through our acquisitions. the markets that we participate in are highly competitive. disk drive manufacturers compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide ssds and pcie technology. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. while different 12 table of contents markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to many of these factors in the markets that we currently address. principal disk drive competitors. there are three companies in the electronic data storage industry that manufacture disk drives: seagate, selling the seagate, lacie, maxtor and samsung brands; western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries; and toshiba corporation other competition. we are seeing direct competition from ssd's that is adversely impacting demand for hdd in some markets including notebook and enterprise mission critical. we expect that this trend will continue although we believe both product types will be required in the market to satisfy the growing demand for electronic data storage. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") have been more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and product cost reductions. we believe the hdd industry experienced benign price erosion in fiscal year 2014, whereas price erosion increased in fiscal years 2015 and 2016. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. we believe fiscal year 2015 reflected seasonality consistent with historical patterns, whereas in fiscal year 2014 our industry experienced more muted seasonal patterns as supply and demand were relatively in balance. in fiscal year 2016, beyond traditional seasonality, variability of sales was a reflection of more cyclical demand from csps based on the timing of large systems installations and the shift of the underlying technology. 13 table of contents research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,237 million, $1,353 million and $1,226 million, respectively, which represented 11%, 10% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of july 1, 2016, we had approximately 5,000 u.s. patents and 1,300 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,500 u.s. and 1,200 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies." the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. 14 table of contents environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the "superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ("eu") enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ("svhcs") in products. employees at july 1, 2016, we employed approximately 45,500 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 36,100 were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 13. business segment and geographic information." 15 table of contents corporate information seagate technology public limited company, is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 exchange act"), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec"). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the "investors" section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media, and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 5, 2016. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions stephen j. luczo 59 chairman and chief executive officer william d. mosley 49 president and chief operating officer philip g. brace 45 president, cloud systems and electronics solutions david h. morton jr. 44 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer regan j. macpherson 53 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary mark re 56 senior vice president, chief technology officer stephen j. luczo. mr. luczo, 59, has served as our ceo since january 2009 and as chairman of the board since 2002. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of seagate technology (seagate technology plc's predecessor) and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board as a director of seagate technology. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 2004, but remained as chairman of the board. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. mr. luczo also served as our president from january 2009 until october 2013. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, 16 table of contents stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo served on the board of directors of microsoft corporation from may 2012 to march 2014. william d. mosley. mr. mosley, 49, was promoted to our president, chief operating officer on june 27, 2016. he was previously our president, operations and technology from october 2013 to june 2016 and our executive vice president, operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from september 2009 through march 2011; executive vice president, sales, marketing and product line management from february 2009 to september 2009; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. philip g. brace. mr. brace, 45, has served as our president, cloud systems and electronics solutions since july 2015. mr. brace joined seagate in september 2014 as executive vice president and chief technology officer of silicon solutions, and was promoted to interim president of cloud systems and electronics solutions on april 30, 2015. he was previously employed by lsi corporation ("lsi") from august 2005 through september 2014. at lsi, he was the executive vice president of the storage solutions group from july 2012 to september 2014, senior vice president and general manager from january 2009 to july 2012, and senior vice president of corporate planning and marketing from august 2005 to january 2009. david h. morton jr. mr. morton, 44, assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer on october 21, 2015. he was previously our senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from april 2014 to october 2015 and our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from october 2009 to april 2014; vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. regan j. macpherson. ms. macpherson, 53, has served as our senior vice president and general counsel since march 2015. she was previously our vice president and interim general counsel from march 2015 to august 2015 and our deputy general counsel from september 2013 until august 2015. prior to that, she was assistant general counsel from 2010 through 2013, associate general counsel from 2008 to 2010 and a senior manager in legal from 2005 to 2008. mark re. mr. re, 56, has served as our senior vice president and chief technology officer since july 2013. prior to that, he served as our vice president, research, from august 2003 to august 2006. mr. re currently serves on the scientific advisory board for the data storage institute, as well as on the advanced storage technology consortium. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. we attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. our customers' estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our major customers decide to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, this is likely to result in reduced total revenues for that quarter. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer requirements and our market share. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, the united kingdom, or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; 18 table of contents the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective 19 table of contents compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. our industries are highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product introductions, substantial price erosion and lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when supply exceeds demand for a particular product. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. our principal sources of competition include: disk drive manufacturers, such as western digital corporation and toshiba; companies providing storage subsystems and components to oems; electronic manufacturing services ("ems") companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise data storage marketplace; other high performance computing ("hpc") data storage providers; and collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of ems, contract electronic manufacturing ("cem") or emerging technology companies. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications and now it also includes solid state drives ("ssds") for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operation. the markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. this could lower the barriers to 20 table of contents entry to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large ems and cem companies. commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. if our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers, we will have difficulty competing against the larger ems and cem companies. if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. while sales to client non-compute and cloud systems and solutions markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the client compute market remain an important part of our business. the client compute market, however, has been, and we expect it to continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices and that perform many of the same capabilities as computers, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. we believe that the deterioration of the client compute market has accelerated recently, and that this accelerated deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. additionally, if demand in the client compute market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the client compute market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. the enterprise storage market has been adversely affected by the growth of the utilization of nand flash in mission critical applications. this deterioration of the enterprise storage market could cause our operating results to suffer. 21 table of contents causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of our products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual. increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and solutions business. we have made and are continuing to make investments to expand and develop our cloud systems and solutions business. our cloud systems and solutions business is subject to the following risks: the cloud systems and solutions market may develop more slowly than we expect; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; and our cloud systems and solutions business generally has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and growth in this business is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our cloud computing business as anticipated. in addition, our growth in this sector may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. changes in the macroeconomic environment have negatively impacted, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. continuing high unemployment rates, low levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence and decreased consumer and enterprise spending in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. 22 table of contents our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our 23 table of contents results derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions. our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. in addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. we invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. these factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may adversely impact our results of operations. we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in 24 table of contents addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of our branded solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. our international sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital, health-related risks, and access to personnel. we have significant sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, united kingdom and the european union have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency 25 table of contents forward exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. see "item 7a.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the 26 table of contents money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ("it") systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 27 table of contents we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the severe flooding in thailand in october 2011, which had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we 28 table of contents could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the most recent report was filed on may 27, 2016. these rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and 29 table of contents could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global 30 table of contents economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. macroeconomic developments like the withdrawal of united kingdom from the european union, the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. on june 27, 2016 and july 11, 2016 we announced restructuring plans to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2017. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our result of operations may suffer. 31 table of contents our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies" contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. 32 table of contents we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our ip rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our ip rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other ip rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and others will not gain access to our trade secrets. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, to successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. our growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would 33 table of contents require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we make or, if we do, how long it will take to achieve such benefits. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could 34 table of contents be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. in addition, our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. 35 table of contents any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the 26 table of contents money supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ("it") systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 27 table of contents we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in thailand, which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the severe flooding in thailand in october 2011, which had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we 28 table of contents could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the most recent report was filed on may 27, 2016. these rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and 29 table of contents could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global 30 table of contents economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. macroeconomic developments like the withdrawal of united kingdom from the european union, the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. on june 27, 2016 and july 11, 2016 we announced restructuring plans to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2017. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our result of operations may suffer. 31 table of contents our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks are hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. additionally, we have exposure to downgrades in the credit ratings of our counterparties as well as exposure related to our credit rating changes. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. as of july 1, 2016, the company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. the company determined no material available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of july 1, 2016. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 1, 2016. 60 table of contents fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value at july 1, 2016 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 762 $ $ $ $ $ $ 762 $ 762 average interest rate 0.35 % 0.35 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 5 $ $ $ $ 1 $ $ 6 $ 6 average interest rate 10.69 % 3.08 % 9.36 % total fixed income $ 767 $ $ $ $ 1 $ $ 768 $ 768 average interest rate 0.42 % 3.08 % 0.45 % 0.42 % debt fixed rate $ $ $ 800 $ $ $ 3,333 $ 4,133 $ 3,491 average interest rate 3.75 % 5.03 % 4.78 % foreign currency exchange risk. we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging . all these foreign currency forward contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in cost of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the fiscal years 2016 and 2015. the table below provides information as of july 1, 2016 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: british pound sterling $ 57 1.42 $ (3 ) total $ 57 $ (3 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit 61 table of contents risk. as of july 1, 2016, we had no material credit exposure related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our seagate deferred compensation plan (the "sdcp"). in fiscal year 2014, the company entered into a total return swap ("trs") in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. the company pays a floating rate, based on libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. 62 table of contentsrisk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date on which they were made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law. 4 table of content part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives ( ssds ), solid state hybrid drives ( sshds ) and storage subsystems. hdds are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. hdds continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing storage architectures, ssds use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand flash memory. in contrast to hdds and ssds, sshds combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a high-capacity hdd and a smaller ssd acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our hdd products are designed for mass capacity storage and legacy markets. these markets were previously categorized as enterprise servers and storage systems, edge non-compute applications and edge compute applications. our hdd and ssd product portfolio includes serial advanced technology attachment ( sata ), serial attached scsi ( sas ) and non-volatile memory express ( nvme ) based designs to support a wide variety of mass capacity and legacy applications. our enterprise data solutions ( eds ) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ). engineered for modularity, mobility, capacity and performance, these solutions include our enterprise hdds and ssds, enabling customers to integrate powerful, scalable storage within legacy environments or build new ecosystems from the ground up in a secure, cost-effective manner. industry overview data storage industry the data storage industry includes companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for data storage devices, as well as companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data, computing platforms and consumer markets. the rapid growth of data generation and the intelligent application of data are driving demand for data storage. as more data is created at endpoints outside traditional data centers, requiring processing at the edge and in the core or cloud, the need for data storage and management has also increased. these use cases include autonomous vehicles, smart manufacturing systems and smart cities. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content, further enabled by fifth-generation wireless ( 5g ), the edge, the internet of things ( iot ) and artificial intelligence ( ai ), will continue to create demand for higher capacity storage solutions. the new ecosystem is expected to require increasing amounts of data storage both at the edge and in the core. markets the principal data storage markets include: mass capacity storage markets mass capacity storage supports high capacity, low-cost per terabyte ( tb ) storage applications, including nearline, video and image applications and network-attached storage ( nas ). mass capacity storage markets represent growing markets that have been increasing as a percentage of our total revenue and in total exabytes shipped in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, with this trend expected to continue in fiscal year 2021. nearline. nearline applications require mass capacity devices, hdds as well as mass capacity eds subsystems that provide end-to-end solutions to businesses for the purpose of modular and scalable storage. enterprise storage applications require both high-capacity and energy efficient storage devices to support low total cost of ownership. the eds solutions may also offer file management systems, software, and compute capabilities to enable both private and public data center applications. we expect this market, which includes storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, to continue to grow and drive increasing exabyte demand. video and image and nas. video and image applications and nas drives are specifically designed to ensure the appropriate performance and reliability of the system for surveillance environments (video and image) and network storage environments (nas). we expect these markets, which includes storage for security and smart video installations, to show long term secular growth in exabyte demand. 5 table of content legacy markets legacy markets include mission critical, desktop, notebook, consumer, dvr, and gaming applications. we continue to service these markets but do not plan significant additional investment. these markets have been decreasing as a percentage of our total revenue in fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018 and this trend is expected to continue in fiscal year 2021, and the long term outlook is for a decrease in demand for exabytes in these markets. mission critical storage. mission critical applications are defined as those that use very high performance enterprise class hdds and ssds with sophisticated firmware to reliably support very high workloads. we expect that enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks will continue to drive market demand for mission critical enterprise storage solutions. consumer storage. consumer applications are externally connected storage, both hdd and ssd-based, used to provide backup capabilities, augmented storage capacity, or portable storage for pcs and mobile devices. desktop and notebook storage. these applications rely on low cost-per-hdd and ssd devices to provide built-in storage for a wide variety of consumer and business applications. gaming storage. this market includes storage for pc-based gaming rigs as well as console gaming applications. the products are optimized for the speed and responsiveness gamers require, and include both internal and external storage options based on hdds and ssds. dvr. dvr applications are hdd storage for video streaming in always-on consumer premise equipment like dvrs and media centers. participants in the data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, and application specific integrated circuits ( asics ). storage device manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers that integrate flash memory into storage products such as ssds. storage solutions manufacturers and system integrators. companies, such as oems, that bundle and package storage solutions, distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications, cloud service providers ( csps ) that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems, and producers of solutions such as storage racks. hyperscale data centers. large hyperscale data center companies, many of which are csps, are increasingly designing their own storage subsystems and having them built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market, driving both innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of large storage system vendors. storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of data. demand for data storage the international data corporation ( idc ) forecasts in the 2020 seagate-sponsored data age 2025 study that the global datasphere should grow from 59 zettabytes in 2020 to 175 zettabytes by 2025. according to idc, we are fast approaching a new era of the data age, which we expect will have a positive impact on storage demand. the digital transformation has given rise to many new applications, all of which rely on faster access to and secure storage of data proliferating from endpoints through edge to cloud. the data age 2025 study found that data is shifting to both the core and the edge, and by 2025 nearly 80% of the world's data will be stored in the core and edge, up from 35% in 2015. as more applications require real-time decision making, some data processing and storage is moving closer to the network edge. we believe this will result in a buildup of private and edge cloud environments that will enable fast and secure access to data throughout the iot ecosystem. according to idc, nearly 25% of the global datasphere will be real-time by 2025. factors contributing to the growth of digital content include: creation, sharing and consumption of media-rich content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition videos and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; 6 table of content increasing use of video and imaging sensors to collect and analyze data used to improve traffic flow, emergency response times and manufacturing production costs, as well as for new surveillance systems that feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; creation and collection of data through the development and evolution of the iot ecosystem, big data analytics, ai and new technology trends such as autonomous vehicles and drones, smart manufacturing, and smart cities; the growing use of analytics, especially for action on data created at the edge instead of processing and analyzing at the data center, which is particularly important for verticals such as autonomous vehicles, property monitoring systems, smart manufacturing and others; cloud migration initiatives and the ongoing advancement of the cloud, including the build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by csps and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; and need for protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, we anticipate that the nature and volume of data being created will require greater storage capability, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity mass storage devices. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving. the utilization of public and private hyperscale storage and open-source solutions is reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for data storage products and solutions going forward. demand trends we believe that continued growth in digital content creation will require increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, protect, back up and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve a growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, storage solutions will evolve as well. mass capacity is and will continue to be the enabler of scale. we expect increased data creation will lead to the expansion of the need for storage in the form of hdds, eds and ssds. while the advance of solid state technology in many end markets is expected to increase, we believe that in the foreseeable future, cloud, edge and traditional enterprise which require high-capacity storage solutions will be best served by hdds due to their ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy-efficient mass storage devices. we also believe that as hdd capacities continue to increase, a focus exclusively on unit demand does not reflect the increase in demand for exabytes. as demand for higher capacity drives increases, the demand profile has shifted to reflect fewer total hdd units, but with higher average capacity per drive and higher overall exabyte demand. industry supply balance from time to time, the storage industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the storage industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business data storage technologies the design and manufacturing of hdds depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques. therefore, it requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms, including innovations like the throughput-optimizing multi actuator mach.2 technology and the high-capacity enabling heat-assisted magnetic recording ( hamr ) technology, focus on the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. this design and manufacturing approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of storage products to service a wide range of data storage applications and industries. 7 table of content disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: input/output operations per second ( iops ), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; storage capacity, commonly expressed in tb, which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ( rpm ), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is measured by storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the size and number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we also offer ssds as part of our storage solutions portfolio. our portfolio includes devices with sata, sas and nvme interfaces. the ssds differ from hdds in that they are without mechanical parts. ssds store data on nand flash memory cells, or metal-oxide semiconductor transistors using a charge on a capacitor to represent a binary digit. ssd technology offers fast access to data and robust performance. ssds complement hyperscale applications, high-density data centers, cloud environments and web servers. they are also used in mission-critical enterprise applications, consumer, gaming and nas applications. the sshds that we manufacture contain technology that fuses some features of ssds and hdds. they include high capacity hdds with flash memory that acts as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data and are primarily targeted at pc gaming applications. manufacturing we primarily design and manufacture our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing costs by: employing manufacturing automation; employing machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capacities. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand declines as it exposes us to higher unit costs when capacity utilization is not optimized. 8 table of content components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as read/write heads and recording media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of read/write heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges related to magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. data is written to or read from the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic substrates, usually an aluminum alloy or glass and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies ( pcbas ) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as sata, scsi, or sas to communicate to the host systems. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly ( e-block ) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and machine learning prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and machine learning operations occur primarily at our facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and the united states. contract manufacturing. we outsource the manufacturing and assembly of certain components and products to third parties in various countries worldwide. this includes outsourcing the pcbas used in our disk drives, ssds and storage subsystems. we continue to participate in the design of our components and products and are directly involved in qualifying key suppliers and components used in our products. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers like us, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. however, our business has been adversely affected by our suppliers' capacity constraints in the past and this could occur in the future. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in price and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel and other transportation costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of alternative shipment methods to help offset any increase in freight costs, and we will continually review various forms of shipments and routes in order to minimize the exposure to higher freight costs. 9 table of content products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for mass capacity storage and legacy applications. we supply more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of capacity, performance, product quality, reliability, price, form factor, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology that contribute to rapid product life cycles. currently our product offerings include: mass capacity storage enterprise nearline hdds. our high-capacity enterprise hdds ship in capacities of up to 18tb. these products are designed for mass capacity data storage in the core and at the edge, server environments and cloud systems that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security. they are available in sata and sas interfaces. enterprise nearline ssds. our enterprise ssds are designed for high-performance, hyperscale, high-density and cloud applications. they are offered with multiple interfaces, including sas, sata, and nvme and in capacities up to 15tb. enterprise nearline systems. our systems portfolio provides modular storage system components to expand and upgrade data centers and other enterprise applications. they feature speed, scalability and security. our capacity-optimized systems feature multiple configurations and can accommodate up to 106 16tb drives. our performance-optimized systems include an all-flash array for critical workloads demanding the highest performance. video and image. our video and image hdds are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the video imaging market with support for multiple streams and capacities up to 16tb. nas. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built health management, error recovery controls, power settings and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 16tb. we also offer nas ssds with capacities up to 3.8tb. legacy applications mission critical hdds and ssds. we continue to support 10,000 and 15,000 rpm hdds, offered in capacities up to 2.4tb, which enable increased throughput while improving energy efficiency. our enterprise ssds are available in capacities up to 15tb, with endurance options up to 10 drive writes per day and various interfaces. our ssds deliver the speed and consistency required for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. consumer solutions. our external storage solutions are shipped under the seagate backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the lacie and maxtor brand names. these product lines are available in capacities up to 16tb. we strive to deliver the best customer experience by leveraging our core technologies, offering services such as seagate recovery services (data recovery) and partnering with leading brands such as xbox, sony and adobe. desktop drives. our 3.5-inch desktop drives offer up to 14tb of capacity for hdd and up to 2tb for ssd. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. notebook drives. our 2.5-inch notebook drives offer up to 5tb for hdd and up to 2tb for ssd. used in applications such as traditional notebooks, convertible systems and external storage, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high-capacity storage. dvr . our dvr hdds are optimized for video streaming in always-on consumer premise equipment applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. gaming. our gaming ssds are specifically optimized internal storage for gaming rigs. these products are designed to enhance the gaming experience during game load and game play and are available in capacities up to 4tb for ssd. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. 10 table of content oem customers, including large hyperscale data center companies and csps, typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited rights of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 16. business segment and geographic information contained in this report for a description of our major customers. competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the mass capacity storage and legacy markets and with other companies in the data storage industry that provide ssds and eds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per tb, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to many of these factors in the markets that we currently compete in. principal competitors. we compete with manufacturers of storage solutions and the other principal manufacturers in the data storage solution industry include: micron technology, inc.; samsung electronics; sk hynix, inc.; kioxia holdings corporation; toshiba corporation; and western digital corporation, operating the western digital, hitachi global storage technologies and sandisk brands. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for data storage products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ( like-for-like products ). price declines for like-for-like products ( price erosion ) tend to be more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. data storage manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of data storage products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and product cost reductions. we believe the hdd industry experienced modest price erosion in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. 11 table of content seasonality variability of sales can be related to the timing of it spending or a reflection of cyclical demand from csps based on the timing of their procurement and deployment requirements and the supply and demand balance of other components such as nand and dram. our legacy markets traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology we believe may lead to new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies for our product development teams as well as to allow us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. patents and licenses as of july 3, 2020, we had approximately 5,300 u.s. patents and 1,200 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 700 u.s. and 400 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation arising from time to time relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims without a material adverse effect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies . the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog for our business is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. 12 table of content we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the superfund law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (2011/65/eu), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives and server storage products, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the u.s., canada, mexico, taiwan, china and japan. the eu reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern in products. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. employees at july 3, 2020, we employed approximately 42,000 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 35,000 were located in our asia operations. we believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 16. business segment and geographic information. corporate information seagate technology public limited company is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the 1934 exchange act ), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec's website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. website access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investor relations section of our website (investors.seagate.com), our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our website. investors. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investor relations section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this form 10-k. 13 table of content information about our executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 7, 2020. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions dr. william d. mosley 53 director and chief executive officer gianluca romano 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer jeffrey d. nygaard 56 executive vice president, global operations katherine e. schuelke 57 senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary ban seng teh 54 senior vice president, global sales and sales operations jeffrey fochtman 46 senior vice president, business and marketing dr. william d. mosley, 53, has served as our chief executive officer ( ceo ) since october 2017 and as a member of the board since july 25, 2017. he was previously our president and chief operating officer ( coo ) from june 2016 to september 2017. he also served as our president of operations and technology from october 2013 to june 2016 and as our executive vice president of operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to these positions, dr. mosley served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from february 2009 through march 2011; senior vice president of global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president of research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. he joined seagate in 1996 as a senior engineer with a phd in solid state physics. from 1996 to 2002, he served at seagate in varying roles of increasing responsibility until his promotion to vice president. gianluca romano, 51, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2019. from october 2011 to december 2018, mr. romano served as corporate vice president, business finance and accounting at micron technology, inc ( micron ), a producer of computer memory and computer data storage. prior to his role at micron, mr. romano served as vice president finance, corporate controller at numonyx, inc., a flash memory company which was acquired by micron in february 2010, from 2008 to 2010. from 1994 until 2008, mr. romano held various finance positions at stmicroelectronics, an electronics and semiconductor manufacturer, most recently as group vice-president, central &amp; north europe finance director, shared accounting services director. jeffrey d. nygaard, 56, has served as our executive vice president, operations, product development and technology development since november 2018. mr. nygaard also served as our executive vice president, global operations from october 2017 to november 2018; senior vice president, global operations and supply chain from march 2017 to october 2017; senior vice president, recording head operations from may 2013 to february 2017; vice president slider, hga, hsa operations from 2011 to april 2013; vice president and country manager, thailand and penang operations from 2009 to 2011; vice president and country manager, thailand operations and asia drive engineering from 2006 to 2009; and vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006. from 1994 to 2006, mr. nygaard served in varying roles of increasing responsibilities in engineering at seagate until his promotion to vice president. mr. nygaard began his career with raytheon and ibm where he held positions as a design engineer and senior engineer. katherine e. schuelke, 57, has served as our senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary since june 2017. from 2011 to january 2016, ms. schuelke was the senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at altera corporation ( altera ), a manufacturer of programmable logic devices. prior to that, ms. schuelke was vice president, general counsel, and secretary at altera from 2001 to 2011. at altera, she held other positions of increasing responsibility from 1996 through 2001. ms. schuelke began her career at an international law firm. ms. schuelke serves on the board of directors of sitime corporation, a provider of silicon timing solutions, and on its compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees. ban seng teh, 54, has served as our senior vice president of global sales and sales operations since november 2014, and is based in singapore. mr. teh also served as our senior vice president of asia-pacific and japan sales and marketing from july 2010 to november 2014. mr. teh joined seagate in 1989 as a field customer engineer and has served in varying roles of increasing responsibilities, including as vice president, asia pacific sales and marketing (singapore) from january 2008 to july 2010; vice president, sales operations from 2006 to 2008; vice president, asia pacific sales from 2003 to 2006; director, marketing and apac distribution sales from 1999 to 2003; and country manager, south asia sales from 1996 to 1999. jeffrey fochtman, 46, has served as our senior vice president, business and marketing since april 2020. prior to that mr. fochtman served as our vice president, global marketing and consumer solutions group from february 2019 to april 2020; as vp, global marketing from august 2015 to february 2019; as senior director of global marketing from april 2012 to august 2015; and as director of marketing from october 2007 to october 2009. prior to re-joining seagate, he was vp of marketing and sales at pogoplug from october 2009 to march 2012; and he served as a product marketing manager at hitachi from february 2001 to october 2007. 14 table of content item 1a. risk factors the ongoing covid-19 pandemic has impacted our business, operating results and financial condition , as well as the operations and financial performance of many of the customers and suppliers in industries that we serve. we are unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic and related effects will adversely impact our business operations, financial performance, results of operations, financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives . the covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a widespread health crisis and numerous disease control measures being taken to limit its spread. the impact of the pandemic on our business has included or could in the future include: disruptions to or restrictions on our ability to ensure the continuous manufacture and supply of our products and services, including insufficiency of our existing inventory levels; temporary closures or reductions in operational capacity of our facilities or the facilities of our direct or indirect suppliers or customers; permanent closures of our direct and indirect suppliers, resulting in adverse effects to our supply chain; temporary shortages of skilled employees available to staff manufacturing facilities due to stay at home orders and travel restrictions within as well as into and out of countries; increases in operational expenses and other costs related to requirements implemented to mitigate the impact of the pandemic; supply chain disruptions; delays or limitations on the ability of our customers to perform or make timely payments; reductions in short- and long-term demand for our products, or other disruptions in technology buying patterns; adverse effects on economies and financial markets globally or in various markets throughout the world, potentially leading to a prolonged economic downturn or reductions in business and consumer spending, which may result in decreased net revenue, gross margins, or earnings and/or in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels; delays to and/or lengthening of our sales or development cycles or qualification activity; challenges for us, our direct and indirect suppliers and our customers in obtaining financing due to turmoil in financial markets; workforce disruptions due to illness, quarantines, governmental actions, other restrictions, and/or the social distancing measures we have taken to mitigate the impact of covid-19 at certain of our locations around the world in an effort to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers, suppliers and of the communities in which we operate (including working from home, restricting the number of employees attending events or meetings in person, limiting the number of people in our buildings and factories at any one time, further restricting access to our facilities, suspending employee travel and inability to meet in person with customers); increased vulnerability to cyberattacks due to the significant number of employees working remotely; and our management team continuing to commit significant time, attention and resources to monitoring the covid-19 pandemic and seeking to mitigate its effects on our business and workforce. the ultimate extent of the impact of covid-19 on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. these impacts, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. such effect may be exacerbated in the event the pandemic and the measures taken in response to it, and their effects, persist for an extended period of time, or if there is a resurgence of the outbreak. under any of these circumstances, the resumption of normal business operations may be delayed or hampered by lingering effects of covid-19 on our operations, direct and indirect suppliers, partners, and customers. we operate in highly competitive markets and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological changes and other market developments, including price, could harm our ability to compete. we face intense competition in the data storage industry. our principal sources of competition include : disk drive and ssd manufacturers, such as micron technology, inc., samsung electronics, sk hynix, inc., toshiba corporation, kioxia holdings corporation and western digital corporation; and companies that provide storage subsystems and components to oems, including electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) and contract electronic manufacturing ( cem ). 15 table of content the markets for our data storage products are characterized by technological change, which is driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability but they also hinder our ability to innovate or differentiate our products. when this occurs, our products may be deemed commodities, which could result in downward pressure on prices. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance have resulted in increased competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. some customers for both mass capacity storage and legacy markets have adopted ssds as an alternative to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of alternative storage technologies may limit our total addressable hdd market, impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share. any resulting increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . in addition, the barriers to entry into our markets could be lowered, allowing large ems and cem companies that utilize general-purpose design skills to enter our markets and reduce the value of our specialized research and design skills. if our markets become more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative, alternative products to our customers or match the price declines or cost efficiencies, we will have difficulty competing against the large ems and cem companies. this could result in lower profit margins or a loss of market share. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal markets would adversely affect our results of operations. we must plan our investments in our products and incur costs before we have customer orders or know about the market conditions at the time the products are produced. if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products or if the markets for our products change, we may be unable to meet demand or we may have insufficient demand, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with most of the orders typically coming at the end of each quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory each quarter for production in that quarter or a specific quarter in the future. as a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales that may never materialize or that may be substantially lower than expected. if actual demand for our products is lower than the forecast, we may also experience higher inventory carrying costs, manufacturing rework costs and product obsolescence. conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may have insufficient inventory to satisfy demand and may have to forego sales . other factors that have affected and may continue to affect our ability to anticipate or meet the demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations include: competitive product announcements or technological advances that result in excess supply when customers cancel purchases in anticipation of newer products; variable demand resulting from unanticipated upward or downward pricing pressures; our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our data storage products; changes in our product mix, which may adversely affect our gross margins; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to non-u.s. customers. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a small number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our key customers decides to defer or cancel a purchase order or delay product acceptance in any given quarter, our revenues for that quarter may be significantly reduced and fall below our expectations. conversely, if one of our key customers unexpectedly increases its orders, we may be unable to produce the additional product volumes in a timely manner or take advantage of any overall increased market demand. this could damage our customer relationships and reputation, which may adversely affect our results of operations . 16 table of content changes in demand for computer systems, data storage subsystems and consumer electronic devices may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems and consumer electronic devices. historically, the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computers, data storage subsystems or consumer electronic devices generally result in sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in customer spending on the systems and devices that incorporate our products could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic and business conditions can exacerbate these risks. sales to the legacy markets remain an important part of our business. these markets, however, have been, and we expect them to continue to be, adversely affected by: announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or shifts in customer preferences, performance requirements and behavior, such as the shift to tablet computers, smart phones, nand flash memory or similar devices; longer product life cycles; and changes in macroeconomic conditions that cause customers to spend less, such as the imposition of new tariffs, increased laws and regulations, and increased unemployment levels. we believe these announcements and introductions from time to time have caused customers to defer or cancel their purchases, making certain inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of products in the market causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual, which may materially adversely affect our financial results. we believe that the deterioration of demand for disk drives in certain of the legacy markets has accelerated, and this deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. in addition, the demand for legacy markets products is volatile. this volatility may be exacerbated by competing alternative storage technologies, such as flash memory, which meet customers' cost and capacity metrics. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we are dependent on our long-term investments to manufacture adequate products. our investment decisions in adding new assembly and test capacity require significant planning and lead-time, and a failure to accurately forecast demand for our products could cause us to over-invest or under-invest, which would lead to excess capacity, under-utilization charges, impairments or loss of sales and revenue opportunities. our ability to increase our revenue and maintain our market share depends on our ability to successfully introduce and achieve market acceptance of new products on a timely basis . the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new data storage product offerings. we may face technological, operational and financial challenges in developing new products. in addition, our investments in new product development may not yield the anticipated benefits. our market share, revenue and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to : consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in adequate volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. our failure to accurately anticipate customers' needs and accurately identify the shift in technological changes could materially adversely affect our long-term financial results. in addition, the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the potential effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. 17 table of content we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future . if our new products are not successful, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. if our products do not keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected . our customers demand new generations of storage products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, enhanced security, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. if we are unable to develop new products, identify business strategies and timely introduce competitive product offerings to meet technological shifts, or we are unable to execute successfully, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected . when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products experience increases in failure rates, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products, our factory utilization may decrease and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and our service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make it more difficult for us to effectively compete with our competitors. additionally, we may be unable to produce new products that have higher capacities and more advanced technologies in the volumes and timeframes that are required to meet customer demand. we are transitioning to key areal density recording technologies that use hamr technology to increase hdd capacities. if our transitions to more advanced technologies, including the transition to hdds utilizing hamr technology, require development and production cycles that are longer than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new hdd technologies successfully, we may lose sales and market share, which could significantly harm our financial results . we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and our investments to meet our liquidity requirements, including servicing our indebtedness . our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our liquidity requirements, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, investments, servicing our indebtedness and other general corporate requirements. if we cannot fund our liquidity requirements, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, product development efforts, investments and other general corporate expenditures. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies would, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our obligations, which would affect our results of operations. we are leveraged and require significant amounts of cash to service our debt. our debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities and reduce our options for capital allocation. our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns, decreased availability of capital, and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry, and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising, or make it more costly to raise, additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. 18 table of content in addition, in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures or incur additional debt to fund our operations, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital . we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our eds and ssd revenues. we have made and continue to make investments to grow our eds and ssd revenues. our ability to grow eds and ssd revenues is subject to the following risks: we may be unable to accurately estimate and predict data center capacity and requirements; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; we may be unable to obtain cost effective supply of nand flash memory in order to offer competitive ssd solutions; and our cloud systems revenues generally have a longer sales cycle, and growth is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our revenues as anticipated. in addition, our growth in these markets may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. changes in the macroeconomic environment may in the future negatively impact our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic conditions may affect consumer and enterprise spending, and as a result, our customers may postpone or cancel spending in response to volatility in credit and equity markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and/or result in significant decreases in our product prices. other factors that could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations include conditions in the labor market, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer and business spending behavior. macroeconomic developments such as the withdrawal of the united kingdom ( u.k. ) from the european union ( eu ), slowing economies in parts of asia and the americas, increased tariffs between the u.s. and china, mexico and other countries, or adverse economic conditions worldwide resulting from the covid-19 pandemic and efforts of governments and private industry to slow the pandemic through stay at home orders, social distancing requirements and other disease control measures could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology ( it ) budgets or be unable to fund data storage systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services . 19 table of content our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline . our quarterly revenue and results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, have been and may continue to be precipitated by a variety of factors, including: uncertainty in global economic and political conditions which may pose a risk to the overall economy or specific geographies or industries and adversely affect our customers' purchasing behavior; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors which may shift demand away from our products toward those of our competitors; delays or problems in our introduction of new, more cost-effective products, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns of our customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply and demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; changes in tax laws, regulatory requirements, including export regulations or tariffs, or accounting standards; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in our market value. 20 table of content we experience seasonal declines in the sales of our products during the second half of our fiscal year which may adversely affect our results of operations. sales of computers, storage subsystems and consumer electronic devices tend to be seasonal, and therefore, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the desktop and notebook, consumer and gaming storage legacy markets applications of our data storage business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend of our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the desktop and notebook, consumer and gaming storage legacy markets, our sales are seasonal because of the purchasing cycles of our end users. we also experience seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during international holidays like lunar new year, as well as in the summer months (particularly in europe), which typically result in lower sales during those periods. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for nearline and mission critical storage solutions, which impairs our ability to accurately predict our financial and operating results in any period and may adversely affect our ability to forecast the need for investments and expenditures . our nearline and mission critical storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for developing, testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the complexity of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for nearline and mission critical storage solutions is often in excess of one year and frequently unpredictable. given the length of development and qualification programs and unpredictability of the sales cycle, we may be unable to accurately forecast product demand, which may result in lost sales or excess inventory and associated inventory reserves or write-downs, each of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations . we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our key customers . some of our key customers account for a large portion of our revenue. while we have long-standing relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, or we were prohibited or restricted by law, regulation or other governmental action from selling to those key customers, our results of operations would be adversely affected. although sales to key customers may vary from period to period, a key customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new key customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's expense. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new key customers . additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. furthermore, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, it might not be feasible to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. if a significant transaction or regulatory impact involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . 21 table of content we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales . a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in this distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. in addition, retail sales of our legacy markets solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. our ability to reach such consumers depends on us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations . our worldwide sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks that may adversely affect our business related to disruptions in international markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital, health-related risks (including pandemics such as covid-19), investment risks, tariffs, privacy and protection of data, and access to personnel . we have significant sales and manufacturing operations outside of the united states, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, and the united states. additionally, the manufacturing of some of our products is concentrated in certain geographical locations. the production of certain drive subassemblies are limited to thailand and the production of media is limited to singapore. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the united states. disruptions in the economic, environmental, political, legal or regulatory landscape in these countries may have a material adverse impact on our manufacturing and sales operations. our worldwide operations are subject to economic, regulatory and other risks inherent in doing business internationally, including the following : disruptions in international markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including the united kingdom and those in asia and the european union have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominantly in dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. in addition, we have revenue and expenses denominated in currencies other than the dollar, primarily the thai baht, singaporean dollar, chinese renminbi and british pound sterling, which further exposes us to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. a weakened dollar could increase the effective cost of our expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time, which could be designated as cash flow hedges or not designated as hedging instruments. our hedging strategy may be ineffective, and specific hedges may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. the hedging activities may not cover our full exposure, subject us to certain counterparty credit risks and may impact our results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. 22 table of content potential adverse tax consequences. we are incorporated in ireland and have offices, operations, and subsidiaries in many countries around the world. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions have in the past assessed and may in the future assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constraints in or increases in the costs of air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials, or ship finished product, and as a result our business and results of operations may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our customers could have reduced access to working capital due to global economic conditions, higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's, or their bank's financial condition or the inability to access other financing, which would increase our credit and non-payment risk, and could result in an increase in our operating costs or a reduction in our revenue. in addition, some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as original design manufacturers, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease, such as the recent covid-19 pandemic, has impacted and may adversely impact our operations (including, without limitation, logistical and other operational costs) and the operations of some of our key direct and indirect suppliers and customers. the reactions by governments and private industry to such diseases have also disrupted and could continue to disrupt the availability, timeliness and reliability of the supply chains and distribution networks we rely on. 23 table of content privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, rules and regulations in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention and transfer of information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which is in effect in the european economic area ( eea ), applies to our operations. the gdpr imposes stringent data protection requirements in the eea and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual revenue or 20 million. in china, we are monitoring legal and government advisory developments regarding the chinese cybersecurity law and draft cybersecurity review measures for impacts to our business related to cross-border transfer limitations and evolving privacy, security, or data protection requirements. in the u.s., numerous federal and state laws, rules and regulations apply to our data handling practices. for example, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) which, among other things, requires new disclosures to california consumers and affords such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. the ccpa has required us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. additionally, a new privacy law, the california privacy rights act ( cpra ), recently was certified by the california secretary of state to appear on the ballot for the november 3, 2020 election. if this initiative is approved by california voters, the cpra would significantly modify the ccpa, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring us to incur additional costs and expenses. the u.s. federal government and other states in the u.s. also have proposed or enacted similar laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. some countries have passed or are considering legislation limiting extraterritorial transfers of data, including requiring the local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. as a result of the july 16, 2020, european court of justice ( ecj ), opinion in case c-311/18 (data protection commissioner v facebook ireland limited and maximillian schrems), the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework was deemed an invalid method of compliance with restrictions set forth in the gdpr regarding the transfer of personal data from eea member states to the u.s. and uncertainty was expressed regarding viability of the standard contractual clauses option as a method of transferring personal data outside of the eea. present solutions to legitimize transfers of personal data from the eea may be challenged or deemed insufficient, whether as a result of future ecj rulings, changes in the gdpr (and eea member states' implementations thereof), successor eea data protection regulations, or otherwise, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, including our data transfers, financial condition, operating results and reputation. laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with various laws, rules, rulings, and regulations relating to privacy and data protection have required and may continue to require us to change our data practices, which resulted and may continue to result in increased costs, require significant changes to our business and operations and could otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. actual or perceived violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand and reputation, significant financial penalties and liability, governmental investigations and proceedings, private actions, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. we cannot ensure that any limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer and user agreements, contracts with third-party vendors and service providers or other contracts are enforceable or adequate or would protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to claims relating to a security breach or other security-related matter. although our insurance policies include some liability coverage, if we experienced a widespread security breach or other incident then we could be subject to indemnity claims or other damages that either aren't covered or exceed our insurance coverage. we also cannot be certain that our insurance coverage is adequate for data-handling or data-security liabilities incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. the successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results and reputation. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including the u.s., thailand, china and singapore, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. the reductions in workforce that result from our historical restructurings have made and may continue to make it difficult for us to recruit and retain personnel. increased difficulty in access to, or recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 24 table of content we are subject to counterparty default risks. we have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash and investment deposits, and foreign currency forward exchange contracts and other derivative instruments. as a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will, voluntarily or involuntarily, default on its performance obligations. in times of market distress in particular, a counterparty may not comply with its contractual commitments that could then lead to it defaulting on its obligations with little or no notice to us, thereby limiting our ability to take action to lessen or cover our exposure. additionally, our ability to mitigate our counterparty exposures could be limited by the terms of the relevant agreements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action. if one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of any such counterparty default, we could incur significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our business is subject to various laws, regulations and governmental policies that may cause us to incur significant expense . our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. in particular, legislative, regulatory or other areas of significance for our businesses that u.s. and non-u.s. governments have focused and continue to focus on, including antitrust and competition law, improper payments, data privacy and sovereignty, currency exchange controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls or tariffs on imports and exports in the u.s. or other countries, complex economic sanctions and the enactment of u.s. tax reform and potential further changes to global tax laws, have had and may continue to have an effect on our corporate structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and financial performance. china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union each have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. in addition, regulation or government scrutiny may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we are and may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of sanctions or tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy including in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. the u.s. government has also imposed tariffs on certain non-u.s. goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices to adequately address any tariffs, quotas or duties result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policies, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties, making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. the u.s. government also imposes sanctions through executive orders restricting u.s. companies from conducting business activities with specified individuals and companies, and the sanctions imposed by the u.s. government could be expanded in the future. if we are unable to conduct business with new or existing customers, our business, including revenue, profitability and cash flows, could be materially adversely affected. 25 table of content we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences in the event of cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties . our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by storage and maintenance of data will continue to increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data have been and may continue to be vulnerable to phishing, employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities, including sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks or other computer-related attempts to breach the it systems we use for these purposes. we have been and may also continue be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and the ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities, including sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system . the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, has exposed us and could expose us, our vendors and customers or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network or processes, even if unsubstantiated . we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards and contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused and may continue to cause us to incur substantial costs or required or may continue to require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability or reputational harm . 26 table of content we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools, including in connection with the sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, policies, procedures and monitoring tools, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems policies, procedures or monitoring tools into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures or our inability to successfully modify our it systems, policies, procedures or monitoring tools to respond to changes in our business needs have caused and may continue to cause disruptions in our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality, availability and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. in addition, the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. we rely on sole direct and indirect suppliers or a limited number of direct and indirect suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such direct and indirect component suppliers are geographically concentrated, making our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, the occurrence of local or global health issues or pandemics (such as covid-19), acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate, which may have a material impact on the production, availability and transportation of many components. for example, we have experienced and continue to experience disruptions in our supply chain due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. if our direct and indirect vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, supply and transportation requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience disruption in our supply chain, including shortages in supply or increases in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of content from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, we have been and may continue to be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business . in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business . if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry . we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and exabytes volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results . shortages or delays in critical components, as well as reliance on single-source suppliers, can affect our production and development of products and may harm our operating results . we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers who provide critical materials or components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then : it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers' manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in additional capacity or deliver components in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected . we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology has been and may continue to be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position . 28 table of content if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers . from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects . our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. additionally, because a portion of our key personnel's compensation is contingent upon the performance of our business, including through cash bonuses and equity compensation, when our results of operations or financial condition are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring employees. the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to hire and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment . our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in : increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition . 29 table of content we may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investment opportunities that involve risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. therefore, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, the terms on which we are able to consummate a transaction may not be commercially reasonable for us to pursue. we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by market conditions, our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. in addition, our cash reserves could diminish significantly as a result of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments we pursue. even if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies, we cannot be certain that we will realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we pursue, which could cause, among other things, an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. if our goodwill or net intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a charge to our consolidated statements of comprehensive income which would adversely affect our financial results. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our direct and indirect suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues (such as the covid-19 pandemic), and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our direct and indirect suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations or cost increases in freight and other logistical services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products or employees between regions, increases in or changes to data collection and reporting obligations, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and those of some of our key direct and indirect suppliers and customers. for example, the recent covid-19 pandemic has resulted in government-imposed travel restrictions, border closures, stay-at-home orders, facility closures or operating constraints in a number of locations including, but not limited to, china, malaysia, singapore and the united states, disruptions in our operations and those of our suppliers, partners, and customers, increases in air freight rates, limited numbers of employees available to staff manufacturing operations, and shortages of supplies of personal protective equipment required for our manufacturing operations. if any of these circumstances continue for an extended period of time, our manufacturing ability and capacity, or those of our key direct and indirect suppliers or customers, could be impacted, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 30 table of content failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, customer requirements and regulations regarding conflicts minerals and other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries has and may continue to subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance has increased and may continue to increase our operating costs and may otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. sec rules require certain disclosures regarding the use of specified minerals, often referred to as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. furthermore, our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. if we are unable to comply with requirements regarding the use of conflict and other minerals, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business . from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that have resulted and may continue to result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructurings, we have experienced and may in the future experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increases in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that any future cost reductions or global footprint consolidations will deliver the results we expect, be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited . the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. sections 382 and 383 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally impose annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards . see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5. income taxes contained in this report for, among other things, a description of current net operating loss and tax credit carryforward limitations. 31 table of content we are at times subject to intellectual property proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with the use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which, if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results . we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings . we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, security measures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future . there can be no assurance tha t: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and others will not gain access to our trade secrets. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable . furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the united states . 32 table of content the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly . the market price of our ordinary shares has experienced price fluctuations and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future. the market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to various factors including : general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions and negative financial news unrelated to our business or industry, including the impact of the recent covid-19 pandemic; the timing and amount of our share repurchases; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet our guidance or the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; significant announcements by or changes in financial condition of a large customer; general stock market conditions; actual or perceived security breaches or security vulnerabilities; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; actual or anticipated changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. market price fluctuations of our ordinary shares has impacted and could continue to impact the value of our equity compensation, which could affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. in addition, in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly . although historically we have announced regular cash dividend payments and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at historical levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. 22 table of content potential adverse tax consequences. we are incorporated in ireland and have offices, operations, and subsidiaries in many countries around the world. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions have in the past assessed and may in the future assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constraints in or increases in the costs of air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials, or ship finished product, and as a result our business and results of operations may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our customers could have reduced access to working capital due to global economic conditions, higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's, or their bank's financial condition or the inability to access other financing, which would increase our credit and non-payment risk, and could result in an increase in our operating costs or a reduction in our revenue. in addition, some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as original design manufacturers, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease, such as the recent covid-19 pandemic, has impacted and may adversely impact our operations (including, without limitation, logistical and other operational costs) and the operations of some of our key direct and indirect suppliers and customers. the reactions by governments and private industry to such diseases have also disrupted and could continue to disrupt the availability, timeliness and reliability of the supply chains and distribution networks we rely on. 23 table of content privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, rules and regulations in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention and transfer of information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which is in effect in the european economic area ( eea ), applies to our operations. the gdpr imposes stringent data protection requirements in the eea and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual revenue or 20 million. in china, we are monitoring legal and government advisory developments regarding the chinese cybersecurity law and draft cybersecurity review measures for impacts to our business related to cross-border transfer limitations and evolving privacy, security, or data protection requirements. in the u.s., numerous federal and state laws, rules and regulations apply to our data handling practices. for example, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) which, among other things, requires new disclosures to california consumers and affords such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. the ccpa has required us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. additionally, a new privacy law, the california privacy rights act ( cpra ), recently was certified by the california secretary of state to appear on the ballot for the november 3, 2020 election. if this initiative is approved by california voters, the cpra would significantly modify the ccpa, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring us to incur additional costs and expenses. the u.s. federal government and other states in the u.s. also have proposed or enacted similar laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. some countries have passed or are considering legislation limiting extraterritorial transfers of data, including requiring the local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. as a result of the july 16, 2020, european court of justice ( ecj ), opinion in case c-311/18 (data protection commissioner v facebook ireland limited and maximillian schrems), the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework was deemed an invalid method of compliance with restrictions set forth in the gdpr regarding the transfer of personal data from eea member states to the u.s. and uncertainty was expressed regarding viability of the standard contractual clauses option as a method of transferring personal data outside of the eea. present solutions to legitimize transfers of personal data from the eea may be challenged or deemed insufficient, whether as a result of future ecj rulings, changes in the gdpr (and eea member states' implementations thereof), successor eea data protection regulations, or otherwise, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, including our data transfers, financial condition, operating results and reputation. laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with various laws, rules, rulings, and regulations relating to privacy and data protection have required and may continue to require us to change our data practices, which resulted and may continue to result in increased costs, require significant changes to our business and operations and could otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. actual or perceived violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand and reputation, significant financial penalties and liability, governmental investigations and proceedings, private actions, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. we cannot ensure that any limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer and user agreements, contracts with third-party vendors and service providers or other contracts are enforceable or adequate or would protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to claims relating to a security breach or other security-related matter. although our insurance policies include some liability coverage, if we experienced a widespread security breach or other incident then we could be subject to indemnity claims or other damages that either aren't covered or exceed our insurance coverage. we also cannot be certain that our insurance coverage is adequate for data-handling or data-security liabilities incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. the successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results and reputation. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including the u.s., thailand, china and singapore, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. the reductions in workforce that result from our historical restructurings have made and may continue to make it difficult for us to recruit and retain personnel. increased difficulty in access to, or recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 24 table of content we are subject to counterparty default risks. we have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash and investment deposits, and foreign currency forward exchange contracts and other derivative instruments. as a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will, voluntarily or involuntarily, default on its performance obligations. in times of market distress in particular, a counterparty may not comply with its contractual commitments that could then lead to it defaulting on its obligations with little or no notice to us, thereby limiting our ability to take action to lessen or cover our exposure. additionally, our ability to mitigate our counterparty exposures could be limited by the terms of the relevant agreements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action. if one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of any such counterparty default, we could incur significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our business is subject to various laws, regulations and governmental policies that may cause us to incur significant expense . our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. in particular, legislative, regulatory or other areas of significance for our businesses that u.s. and non-u.s. governments have focused and continue to focus on, including antitrust and competition law, improper payments, data privacy and sovereignty, currency exchange controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls or tariffs on imports and exports in the u.s. or other countries, complex economic sanctions and the enactment of u.s. tax reform and potential further changes to global tax laws, have had and may continue to have an effect on our corporate structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and financial performance. china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union each have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. in addition, regulation or government scrutiny may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we are and may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of sanctions or tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy including in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. the u.s. government has also imposed tariffs on certain non-u.s. goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices to adequately address any tariffs, quotas or duties result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policies, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties, making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. the u.s. government also imposes sanctions through executive orders restricting u.s. companies from conducting business activities with specified individuals and companies, and the sanctions imposed by the u.s. government could be expanded in the future. if we are unable to conduct business with new or existing customers, our business, including revenue, profitability and cash flows, could be materially adversely affected. 25 table of content we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences in the event of cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties . our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by storage and maintenance of data will continue to increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data have been and may continue to be vulnerable to phishing, employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities, including sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks or other computer-related attempts to breach the it systems we use for these purposes. we have been and may also continue be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and the ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities, including sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system . the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, has exposed us and could expose us, our vendors and customers or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network or processes, even if unsubstantiated . we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards and contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused and may continue to cause us to incur substantial costs or required or may continue to require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability or reputational harm . 26 table of content we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools, including in connection with the sustained maintenance of remote working requirements. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, policies, procedures and monitoring tools, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems policies, procedures or monitoring tools into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures or our inability to successfully modify our it systems, policies, procedures or monitoring tools to respond to changes in our business needs have caused and may continue to cause disruptions in our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality, availability and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. in addition, the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. we rely on sole direct and indirect suppliers or a limited number of direct and indirect suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such direct and indirect component suppliers are geographically concentrated, making our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, the occurrence of local or global health issues or pandemics (such as covid-19), acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate, which may have a material impact on the production, availability and transportation of many components. for example, we have experienced and continue to experience disruptions in our supply chain due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. if our direct and indirect vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, supply and transportation requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience disruption in our supply chain, including shortages in supply or increases in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of content from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, we have been and may continue to be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business . in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business . if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry . we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and exabytes volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results . shortages or delays in critical components, as well as reliance on single-source suppliers, can affect our production and development of products and may harm our operating results . we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers who provide critical materials or components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then : it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers' manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in additional capacity or deliver components in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected . we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology has been and may continue to be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position . 28 table of content if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers . from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects . our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. additionally, because a portion of our key personnel's compensation is contingent upon the performance of our business, including through cash bonuses and equity compensation, when our results of operations or financial condition are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring employees. the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to hire and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment . our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in : increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition . 29 table of content we may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investment opportunities that involve risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. therefore, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, the terms on which we are able to consummate a transaction may not be commercially reasonable for us to pursue. we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by market conditions, our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. in addition, our cash reserves could diminish significantly as a result of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments we pursue. even if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies, we cannot be certain that we will realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we pursue, which could cause, among other things, an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. if our goodwill or net intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a charge to our consolidated statements of comprehensive income which would adversely affect our financial results. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our direct and indirect suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues (such as the covid-19 pandemic), and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our direct and indirect suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations or cost increases in freight and other logistical services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products or employees between regions, increases in or changes to data collection and reporting obligations, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and those of some of our key direct and indirect suppliers and customers. for example, the recent covid-19 pandemic has resulted in government-imposed travel restrictions, border closures, stay-at-home orders, facility closures or operating constraints in a number of locations including, but not limited to, china, malaysia, singapore and the united states, disruptions in our operations and those of our suppliers, partners, and customers, increases in air freight rates, limited numbers of employees available to staff manufacturing operations, and shortages of supplies of personal protective equipment required for our manufacturing operations. if any of these circumstances continue for an extended period of time, our manufacturing ability and capacity, or those of our key direct and indirect suppliers or customers, could be impacted, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 30 table of content failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, customer requirements and regulations regarding conflicts minerals and other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries has and may continue to subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance has increased and may continue to increase our operating costs and may otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. sec rules require certain disclosures regarding the use of specified minerals, often referred to as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. furthermore, our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. if we are unable to comply with requirements regarding the use of conflict and other minerals, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business . from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that have resulted and may continue to result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructurings, we have experienced and may in the future experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increases in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that any future cost reductions or global footprint consolidations will deliver the results we expect, be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited . the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. sections 382 and 383 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally impose annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards . see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes and equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio. as of july 3, 2020, we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. we determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of july 3, 2020. we have fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. our term loan bears interest at a variable rate equal to london interbank offered rate ( libor ) plus a variable margin set on june 19, 2020. 49 table of content in the quarter ended october 4, 2019, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on the term loan to fixed interest rates. the contracts were effective as of october 4, 2019 and will mature on september 16, 2025. the objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with the variable interest rate on the term loan. the company designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. the table below presents principal amounts and related fixed or weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 3, 2020. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fair value at july 3, 2020 assets cash equivalents: floating rate $ 551 $ $ $ $ $ $ 551 $ 551 average interest rate 0.48 % 0.48 % other debt securities fixed rate $ 10 $ $ $ $ $ 8 $ 18 $ 18 fixed interest rate 5.00 % 5.00 % debt fixed rate $ $ 229 $ 546 $ 500 $ 479 $ 1,995 $ 3,749 $ 4,010 average interest rate 4.25 % 4.75 % 4.88 % 4.75 % 4.71 % 4.71 % variable rate $ 19 $ 25 $ 25 $ 25 $ 25 $ 381 $ 500 $ 490 average interest rate 3.04 % 3.04 % 3.04 % 3.04 % 3.04 % 3.04 % 3.04 % foreign currency exchange risk. from time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. at this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. we hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the change in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. all foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months. we recognized $4 million in other expense, net related to hedge ineffectiveness and discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal year 2020. we did not have any material net gains or losses recognized in cost of revenue, or other expense, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during fiscal year 2019. the table below provides information as of july 3, 2020 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 199 $ 31.67 $ 4 singapore dollar 243 $ 1.39 (2) chinese renminbi 106 $ 7.17 1 british pound sterling 84 $ 0.81 total $ 632 $ 3 ___________________________________________________________________________________ (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of 50 table of content contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future ability to raise capital, our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties and may increase the cost of such capital. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan the seagate deferred compensation plan (the sdcp ). the sdcp is a successor plan to the prior seagate deferred compensation plans, as amended from time to time, under which no additional deferrals may be made after december 31, 2014. in fiscal year 2014, we entered into a total return swap ( trs ) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. we pay a floating rate, based on the libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liabilities due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. seequalitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio, or to hedge debt. we invest in high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. as stated in our policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining a diversified portfolio and by investing in only high quality securities. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. we have both fixed and floating rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we have used derivative financial instruments in the form of an interest rate swap agreement to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt obligations. our last interest rate swap agreement matured in november 2002. we currently have no swap agreements. the table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 2, 2004. all investments mature in three years or less. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value july 2, 2004 (in millions) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 336 $ 336 $ 335 average interest rate 1.21 % 1.21 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 38 $ 78 $ 343 $ 459 $ 458 average interest rate 3.82 % 3.09 % 3.03 % 3.11 % variable rate $ 304 $ 304 $ 304 average interest rate 1.47 % 1.47 % total investment securities $ 678 $ 78 $ 343 $ 1,099 $ 1,097 average interest rate 1.47 % 3.09 % 3.03 % 2.08 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 400 $ 400 $ 414 average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % floating rate: tranche b (libor +2%) $ 4 $ 3 $ 336 $ 343 $ 343 3.13 % 3.13 % 3.13 % 3.13 % foreign currency exchange risk. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market countries in asia and in european countries. during the first three fiscal quarters of 2004, all foreign currency cash flow requirements were met using spot foreign exchange transactions. in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we instituted a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from expenses over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as 60 table of contents the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the forward contracts. the table below provides information as of july 2, 2004 about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value(1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: singapore dollar $ 20 1.72 $ thai baht 27 40.99 $ 47 $ (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. 61 table of contentsqualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio, or to hedge debt. we invest in high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. as stated in our policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining a diversified portfolio and by investing in only high quality securities. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. we have both fixed and floating rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we have used derivative financial instruments in the form of an interest rate swap agreement to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt obligations. our last interest rate swap agreement matured in november 2002. we currently have no swap agreements. the table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 2, 2004. all investments mature in three years or less. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value july 2, 2004 (in millions) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 336 $ 336 $ 335 average interest rate 1.21 % 1.21 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 38 $ 78 $ 343 $ 459 $ 458 average interest rate 3.82 % 3.09 % 3.03 % 3.11 % variable rate $ 304 $ 304 $ 304 average interest rate 1.47 % 1.47 % total investment securities $ 678 $ 78 $ 343 $ 1,099 $ 1,097 average interest rate 1.47 % 3.09 % 3.03 % 2.08 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 400 $ 400 $ 414 average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % floating rate: tranche b (libor +2%) $ 4 $ 3 $ 336 $ 343 $ 343 3.13 % 3.13 % 3.13 % 3.13 % foreign currency exchange risk. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market countries in asia and in european countries. during the first three fiscal quarters of 2004, all foreign currency cash flow requirements were met using spot foreign exchange transactions. in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we instituted a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from expenses over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as 60 table of contents the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the forward contracts. the table below provides information as of july 2, 2004 about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value(1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: singapore dollar $ 20 1.72 $ thai baht 27 40.99 $ 47 $ (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. 61 table of contentsqualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio, or to hedge debt. we invest in high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. as stated in our policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining a diversified portfolio and by investing in only high quality securities. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. we have both fixed and floating rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we have used derivative financial instruments in the form of an interest rate swap agreement to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt obligations. our last interest rate swap agreement matured in november 2002. we currently have no interest rate swap agreements. the table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of july 1, 2005. all investments mature in three years or less. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value july 1, 2005 (in millions) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 677 $ 677 $ 676 average interest rate 3.15 % 3.15 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 127 $ 468 $ 66 $ 661 $ 656 average interest rate 3.10 % 3.19 % 3.62 % 3.22 % variable rate $ 434 $ 434 $ 434 average interest rate 3.31 % 3.31 % total investment securities $ 1,238 $ 468 $ 66 $ 1,772 $ 1,766 average interest rate 3.20 % 3.19 % 3.62 % 3.21 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 400 $ 400 $ 426 average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % floating rate: tranche b (libor +2%) $ 4 $ 336 $ 340 $ 340 5.31 % 5.31 % 5.31 % foreign currency exchange risk. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market countries in asia and in european countries. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, we instituted a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from expenses over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the forward contracts. 61 table of contents as of july 1, 2005, our notional fair values of foreign exchange forward contracts totaled $63 million. we do not believe that these derivatives present significant credit risks, because the counterparties to the derivatives consist of major financial institutions, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. we maintain settlement and revaluation limits as well as maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. we do not enter derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the table below provides information as of july 1, 2005 about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 41 40.16 $ (1 ) singapore dollar 12 1.67 $ british pounds 10 1.83 $ 63 $ (1 ) 62 table of contentsrisk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 12 to 36 months, although our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond this period. these master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the redistribution of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled based on a weekly confirmation by the distributor of its requirements for that week. the agreements typically provide the distributors with price protection with respect to their inventory of our disc drives at the time of a reduction by us in our selling price for the disc drives and also provide limited rights to return the product. the company has significantly increased its sales to retail customers in the last two years and the recent maxtor acquisition has further expanded our retail customer base. retail sales typically require higher marketing support, sales incentives and longer price protection periods. we also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. these agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customer against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. sales, marketing and customer service our marketing organization works to increase demand for our disc drive products through strategic collaboration with key oem customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to build our brand and end-customer relationships. as customer and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have recently organized the company marketing organization with groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. we believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. the worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of oems and distributors throughout most of the world. the worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among north america, japan, asia-pacific (excluding japan) and europe, africa and the middle east. in addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers product requirements. our sales force works directly with our marketing organization to coordinate our oem and distribution channel relationships. we maintain sales offices throughout the united states and in australia, china, england, france, germany, india, ireland, japan, singapore and taiwan. 10 table of contents with the acquisition of maxtor, we acquired the right to the use the maxtor and other related brand names. we believe the maxtor brand is a valuable asset in the retail market and distribution channel, and we intend to continue to offer the maxtor brand of products to consumers globally to broaden our reach into and coverage of these channels as well as optimize the impact of our marketing investments. our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. we warrant our products for periods ranging from one year to five years, with all internal desktop and notebook disc drives shipped through the distribution and retail channels being warranted for five years. foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the office of export administration of the u.s. department of commerce and other u.s. governmental agencies. competition the disc drive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturers competing for a limited number of major customers. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among disc drive manufacturers are storage capacity; price per unit and price per gigabyte; storage/retrieval access times; data transfer rates; product quality and reliability; production volume capability; form factor; responsiveness to customer preferences and demands; warranty; and brand. we believe that our products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. principal competitors . we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include other independent disc drive manufacturers such as western digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as fujitsu, hitachi global storage technologies, samsung and toshiba. because they produce complete computer systems, captive manufacturers can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which reduces their need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in their computer systems and allows them to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, hitachi global storage technologies (together with affiliated entities) and samsung electronics incorporated also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics, and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. we also face indirect competition from the large captive manufacturers, who continually evaluate whether to manufacture their own disc drives and other information storage products or purchase them from outside sources other than us. these manufacturers also sell disc drives to third parties, which results in direct competition with us. we expect that continued consolidation both among independent manufacturers and among captive manufacturers will increase the threat posed to our business by these competitors. during the last few years, additional competitors have entered the market, including cornice and gs magicstor, offering 1-inch disc drives, and excelstor as a contract manufacturer of desktop disc drives. with respect to our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives, such as our st1 used in hand-held consumer electronics devices such as digital music players, digital cameras and digital video cameras, we have seen increased competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. 11 table of contents price erosion . our competitors have historically offered new or existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. even during periods when demand for disc drives is growing, our industry is price competitive and vendors experience price erosion over the life of a product. in addition, price erosion may be more pronounced during periods of industry consolidation, such as leading up to and after the closing of our acquisition of maxtor. price erosion has increased as product life cycles have lengthened due to a slowing in the rate of increase in areal density. this slowing of the areal density curve may contribute to increases in average price erosion to the extent that historical price erosion patterns continue, product life cycles are lengthened, our competitors have more time to enter the market for a particular product, and we are unable to offset this with new products at higher average prices. we expect that price erosion in our industry will continue for the foreseeable future. to remain competitive, we believe it will be necessary to continue to reduce our prices as well as introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies prior to that of our competitors to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structure on these product introductions. we have established production facilities in china, malaysia, singapore and thailand to achieve cost reductions. product life cycles and changing technology . historically, competition and changing customer preference and demand in the disc drive industry have shortened product life cycles and caused acceleration in the development and introduction of new technology. based on the recent pace of new product introductions, however, we believe that the current rate of increase in areal density is slowing from the rate of the last several years, and the resulting variability in product life cycles may make planning for product transitions more critical. we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and reliability which meet changing user needs and which successfully anticipate or respond to changes in technology and standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. it is unclear what impact the industry ongoing shift from longitudinal to perpendicular recording technology will have on product life cycles. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies and products and evaluating alternative storage technologies. we have increased our focus on research and development and realigned our disc drive development process. this structured product process is designed to bring new products to market through predictable and repeatable methodologies. seagate research group, which is based in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, is dedicated to extending the capacity of magnetic and optical recording and exploring alternative data storage technologies, including perpendicular recording technology and heat assisted magnetic recording technology. perpendicular recording technology involves a different orientation for the magnetic field than is currently used in disc drives, and heat assisted magnetic recording technology uses heat generated by a laser to improve storage capacity. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disc drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had product development expenses of $805 million, $645 million and $666 million, respectively. patents and licenses as of june 30, 2006, we had approximately 3,768 u.s. patents and 652 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,228 u.s. and 695 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the information storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, the protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are generally more important than patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. nevertheless, we believe that patents are valuable to our 12 table of contents business and intend to continue our efforts to obtain patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the information storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the information storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse effect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 3. legal proceedings. the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation may be substantial regardless of the merit of the claim or the outcome. we have patent cross-licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we are engaged in negotiations with other major disc drive companies and component manufacturers with respect to ongoing patent cross-licenses. backlog in view of customers rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disc drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. employees at june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 60,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 46,000 employees were located in our asian operations. as part of the ramp-down of maxtor-designed disc drive products, we expect to reduce the number of employees by approximately 5,100. in addition, we make use of temporary employees, principally in manufacturing, who are hired on an as-needed basis. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels, and even then we cannot assure you of any such success. we believe that our employee relations are good. environmental matters our operations are subject to comprehensive u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits. we incur operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the u.s. federal superfund law and similar state statutes, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. at each of these sites, the government has assigned to us a portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. 13 table of contents some of our current and former sites have a history of commercial and industrial operations, including the use of hazardous substances. groundwater and soil contamination resulting from historical operations has been identified at several of our current and former facilities and we are addressing the cleanup of these sites in cooperation with the relevant government agencies. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. executive officers the following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of september 8, 2006. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age position william d. watkins 53 chief executive officer and director david a. wickersham 50 president and chief operating officer charles c. pope 51 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer brian s. dexheimer 43 executive vice president, worldwide sales, marketing and customer service william l. hudson 54 executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary robert whitmore 44 executive vice president, product and process development james m. chirico, jr. 48 executive vice president, global disc storage operations michael j. wingert 45 executive vice president, maxtor integration and chief technical officer jaroslaw s. glembocki 50 senior vice president, heads and media mr. william d. watkins , our chief executive officer and one of our directors, joined us as executive vice president of our recording media group in february 1996, upon our merger with conner peripherals, inc. in october 1997, mr. watkins took on additional responsibility as executive vice president of the disc drive operations, and in august 1998, he was appointed to the position of chief operating officer, with responsibility for our disc drive manufacturing, recording media and head operations and product development. in june 2000, he was appointed to the position of president, and in november 2000, he became a member of our board of directors. in april 2004, mr. watkins relinquished the title of chief operating officer and he was appointed as our chief executive officer effective july 3, 2004. on september 8, 2006, he relinquished the title of president. prior to joining us, he was president and general manager of the disk division at conner peripherals, inc., an information storage solutions company, from january 1990 until december 1992. in january 1993, mr. watkins became president of heads &amp; media manufacturing operations at conner peripherals, inc. mr. david a. wickersham joined us in may 1998 as senior vice president, worldwide materials. he assumed responsibilities for worldwide product line management in august 1999. in may 2000, he was promoted to executive vice president and in april 2004, assumed the responsibility of chief operating officer. on september 8, 2006, he was promoted to president. prior to joining us, mr. wickersham was vice president, worldwide materials at maxtor corporation from 1996 to may 1998. from 1993 to 1996, mr. wickersham was director of corporate materials at exabyte corporation. from 1978 to 1993, he held various management positions at ibm. mr. charles c. pope , our executive vice president of finance since april 1999 and our chief financial officer since february 1998, joined us as director of budgets and analysis in 1985 with our acquisition of grenex, inc. from january 1997 to april 1999, mr. pope was our senior vice president of finance. he has held a variety of positions in his 21-year executive experience with us, including as director of finance of the thailand operations, vice president of finance of the asia pacific operations, vice president of finance and treasurer of our predecessor, seagate technology, inc., vice president and general manager of seagate magnetics and, most recently, senior vice president of finance of the storage products group. 14 table of contents mr. brian s. dexheimer joined us as a result of our acquisition of imprimis in 1989. his career includes more than 21 years of experience in data storage, holding various sales, sales management and marketing positions with us. mr. dexheimer held the position of vice president, marketing and product line management in the removable storage solutions group from 1996 to july 1997. in july 1997, he was promoted to vice president and general manager of removable storage solutions until august 1998 when he was promoted to senior vice president, product marketing and product line management for desktop disc drives. in august 1999, he was promoted to senior vice president, worldwide sales and marketing. he was promoted to executive vice president worldwide sales, marketing and customer service in august 2000. in december 2005, he assumed the additional role of executive vice president, storage business. mr. william l. hudson , our executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary, joined us in january 2000 as a senior vice president and was promoted to executive vice president in november 2002. prior to joining us, mr. hudson was a partner of the law firm gibson dunn &amp; crutcher, llp from august 1997 to december 1999 and, from october 1984 to july 1997, he was a partner of the law firm brobeck, phleger &amp; harrison, llp. mr. robert whitmore was promoted to executive vice president of product and process development in february 2006. prior to this promotion, he was our senior vice president of product and process development since october 2004. in this position, he is responsible for managing worldwide product and process development for design centers located in minnesota, colorado and singapore. his experience includes nearly 21 years in the disc drive industry. prior to his current position, he was senior vice president of product development engineering from 2002 to 2004 for enterprise, personal and consumer storage. in this position he managed all disc drive products engineering organizations. during 1999 to 2002, as vice president of enterprise storage design engineering, mr. whitmore organization was responsible for the launch of multiple key products for us. after returning from his expatriate assignment in singapore in 1997, where he was responsible for all enterprise storage products, he served as vice president responsible for our twin cities manufacturing operations. mr. james m. chirico, jr. , our executive vice president, global disc storage operations, joined us in 1998 as senior vice president of worldwide manufacturing quality based in singapore. in april 1999, he was appointed senior vice president and general manager of recording head operations based in minnesota and in september 2000, he was appointed to the position of senior vice president and general manager, asia operations. mr. chirico was appointed to his current position of executive vice president, global disc storage operations in february of 2006. prior to joining us, mr. chirico spent 17 years with ibm where he held a number of management positions within manufacturing operations. mr. michael j. wingert has been our executive vice president of maxtor integration since may 2006. on september 8, 2006, he also assumed the responsibility of chief technical officer. prior to our acquisition of maxtor, mr. wingert served as president and chief operating officer of maxtor corporation from november 2004 to may 2006. mr. wingert previously served at cornice, inc. as chief operating officer from may 2004 to november 2004, and as president and chief executive officer from july 2004 to november 2004. mr. wingert served as maxtor executive vice president/ general manager, server products group from november 2001 to may 2004. from october 1994 until october 1999, mr. wingert served as maxtor vice president, desktop engineering and became senior vice president, engineering in october 1999. prior to joining maxtor in 1994, mr. wingert held various senior management positions in product test and development at ibm. mr. jaroslaw s. glembocki was promoted to senior vice president of our recording heads and media operations in october 2000. in this position, mr. glembocki is responsible for overseeing all component research, product development, disc drive integration, production launch, materials and volume production activities for the worldwide operations relating to heads and media, which are located in the united states, asia and europe. mr. glembocki joined us in the february 1996 merger with conner peripherals. as vice president of engineering for our recording media group, mr. glembocki was responsible for our media research, product development, drive integration and production launch. a key member of the team that founded the conner disk 15 table of contents division, mr. glembocki managed all of the engineering research and development activities. during 1994 and 1995, mr. glembocki held the position of general manager of the conner disk division. prior to joining us, mr. glembocki held positions at domain technology and ibm. financial information financial information for the company reportable business segments and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8, note 7, business segment and geographic information. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street n.w., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because we make filings to the sec electronically, you may access this information at the sec internet site: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access . our internet web site address is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investor relations portion of this web site, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. corporate information we were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business we expect the integration of seagate and maxtor will result in revenue attrition, significant cash expenditures and accounting charges, increased capital expenditures and operating inefficiencies that will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition during fiscal year 2007 and potentially beyond. we expect to experience attrition of maxtor revenue as we complete the integration of maxtor business into our operations. we will also incur significant cash expenditures and non-cash accounting charges in connection with the integration. the cash expenditures have been preliminarily estimated to be approximately $500 million and include restructuring and integration activities and retention bonuses. in addition to the anticipated cash expenditures, we expect significant non-cash charges, including those associated with the amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation, which we currently estimate at approximately $385 million (approximately $200 million of which is expected to be incurred in the first year following the closing). we anticipate that the majority of these cash expenditures and non-cash charges will occur in the 12 months following the closing of the merger. however, the timing of the stock-based compensation charge may be significantly affected by the effect of employee terminations as a result of restructuring activities. a substantial portion of the cash expenditures relating to restructuring activities will be recorded as liabilities assumed from maxtor and will increase goodwill, while the non-cash charges will generally reduce earnings of the company. we also anticipate approximately $580 million of incremental capital expenditures as we combine operations in the first 18 to 24 months after the closing. during the initial months after the closing of the acquisition as we are winding down the manufacture and sale of maxtor-designed disc drive products and ramping up the manufacture of seagate-designed disc drive products to meet maxtor customers demands, we also expect to experience operating inefficiencies that will adversely impact our gross margin and operating results. as a result of the revenue attrition, cash expenditures, accounting charges, capital expenditures and operating inefficiencies described above, our operating results and financial condition have been and will be adversely affected, particularly in the first year following the closing of the merger which occurred on may 19, 2006. the failure to successfully integrate maxtor business into our operations in the expected time frame, or at all, may adversely affect the company future results. we believe that the acquisition of maxtor will result in certain benefits, including certain cost synergies and operational efficiencies. however, to realize these anticipated benefits, maxtor business must be successfully integrated into seagate operations by winding down the manufacture and sale of maxtor-designed disc drive products and transitioning maxtor customers to seagate disc drive products. the success of the maxtor acquisition will depend on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits from integrating maxtor business into our operations. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the maxtor acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: failure to successfully manage relationships with maxtor customers, distributors and suppliers and the possibility of unanticipated claims from such parties as we wind down the manufacture and sale of maxtor-designed disc drive products; failure of maxtor customers to accept seagate-designed disc drive products or to continue as customers of the combined company, particularly in the near term as we seek to transfer maxtor customers purchases to seagate-designed disc drive products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the company; revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels; potential incompatibility of operating systems; failure to leverage the increased scale of the company quickly and effectively; 17 table of contents potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; and the loss of key employees. in addition, although we are currently transitioning maxtor sales to seagate-designed disc drive products and expect this transition to be substantially completed by the end of calendar 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be successful with this transition during the contemplated time frames or at all. the integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. if the company is not able to successfully integrate maxtor business and operations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability, which may be even more pronounced in the near term as our competitors seek to increase their market share following our acquisition of maxtor. even during periods when demand is stable, the disc drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe this basic industry condition of continuing price erosion and market share variability has been even more acute recently in those markets served by maxtor, particularly with respect to desktop disc drives, as our competitors engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand. as a result, the pricing environment in the june 2006 quarter was very competitive and we expect it to remain competitive for the remainder of fiscal year 2007 as our competitors continue these efforts. in addition to the recent pricing activity discussed above, based on our recent experience in the industry with respect to new product introductions, we believe that the rate of growth in areal density, or the storage capacity per square inch on a disc, is slowing from its previous levels. this trend may contribute to increased average price erosion. to the extent that historical price erosion patterns continue, product life cycles may lengthen, our competitors may have more time to enter the market for a particular product and we may be unable to offset these factors with new product introductions at higher average prices. a second general industry trend that may contribute to increased average price erosion is the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our result of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in the notebook and small form factor markets. our market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers diversifying their sources of supply as the slowing rate of growth in areal density has resulted in longer product cycles and more time for our competitors to enter the market for particular products. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings, which are competitive with our recently introduced new products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. we expect market shares to be even more variable in the near term as customers adjust their purchasing practices in reaction to our acquisition of maxtor, particularly in those markets served by maxtor. any significant decline in our market share would adversely affect our results of operations. 18 table of contents principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disc drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disc drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disc drive manufacturers and large captive manufacturers such as: independent captive western digital corporation fujitsu limited cornice inc. hitachi global storage technologies gs magicstor inc. samsung electronics incorporated excelstor toshiba corporation the term independent in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disc drives as a stand-alone product, and the term captive refers to disc drive manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disc drives or other information storage products. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. because components other than disc drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disc drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in a computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. in addition, hitachi global storage technologies (together with affiliated entities) and samsung electronics incorporated also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. this may improve their ability to compete with us. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disc drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in addition, in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disc drives, manufacturers of disc drives have had to develop large, in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of large production facilities and industry consolidation can contribute to the intensification of competition. we also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disc drives or other information storage products. in some emerging consumer applications, disc drives smaller than 1.8-inch form factor compete directly with alternative storage technologies, such as flash. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our shares price to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period. we expect this fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including: the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we may engage in, particularly, in the near term, the impact of expenses and charges resulting from our acquisition of maxtor and the ongoing integration of its business into our operations; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly in the near term, as our customers reposition their demand following the closing of our acquisition of maxtor and as, over the longer term, our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume comparable product technology or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory; 19 table of contents competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, including, in the near term, following the closing of our acquisition of maxtor, pricing by our competitors specially targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disc drives, due to seasonality and other factors, particularly in the near term as such demand may be impacted by delays in new computer operating system software and new gaming consoles; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies, particularly with respect to precious metals and scarce alloys used in producing media for products using perpendicular recording technology; delays or problems in the introduction of our new products due to inability to achieve high production yields, delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of certain products, particularly at times such as the present, where the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in supply/demand imbalances; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and other major regions in which we do business; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; and announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disc drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. 20 table of contents smaller form factor disc drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disc drives, our business may suffer. the disc drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disc drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronics devices, but also including personal computers and enterprise storage applications. many of these applications have typically used disc drives with a 3.5-inch form factor, which we currently manufacture. some of these applications, such as consumer electronics applications like digital music players and digital cameras, represent fast growing markets for disc drives. we initiated volume shipments of our first small form factor disc drive, the momentus notebook disc drive, to a number of oems in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. in june 2004, we announced our first 1-inch form factor disc drive, additional capacity models of our momentus notebook disc drive and a 2.5-inch form factor disc drive for enterprise storage applications. since then, we have introduced multiple higher-capacity versions of our 1-inch and 2.5-inch disc drives for mobile computing, consumer electronics and enterprise storage applications and we expect to begin offering a 1.8-inch form factor disc drive during fiscal 2007. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity and lower cost of these technologies have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disc drives, customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. perpendicular recording technology if our customers decide not to accept this new technology until either more disc drive manufacturers are providing it in their products, or there is more performance history for this new technology, our operating results will be adversely impacted. if products based on this technology suffer unanticipated or atypical reliability or operability problems, our operating results will be adversely impacted. in addition, products based on perpendicular technology require increased quantities of precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium which increases risk of higher costs and production delays that could adversely impact our operating results. to address the growing demand for higher capacity products, we have begun a transition to perpendicular recording technology to achieve continued growth in areal density. to date, we have announced perpendicular technology based products for the desktop, enterprise, notebook, consumer electronics and branded solutions markets and we believe that we are ahead of our competitors in transitioning our product offerings to perpendicular recording technology. we expect that by the end of fiscal 2007, more than half of our unit volume will consist of products using perpendicular recording technology. perpendicular recording technology poses various technological challenges including a complex integration of the recording head, the disc, recording channel, drive software and firmware as a system. to the extent that our customers decide not to accept this new technology until either more disc drive manufacturers are providing it in their products, or there is more performance history for this new technology, our operating results will be adversely impacted. in addition, if these perpendicular recording technology based products suffer unanticipated or atypical failures that were not anticipated in the design or testing of those products, our service and warranty costs may materially increase which would adversely impact our operating results. perpendicular recording technology also requires recording media with more layers and the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. these precious metals and scarce alloys have recently become increasingly expensive and at times difficult to acquire. as our product offerings shift increasingly to perpendicular recording technology, we will be exposed to increased risks that higher costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and scarce alloys could adversely impact our operating results. 21 table of contents seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during our fourth fiscal quarter. because sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for disc drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during our fourth fiscal quarter than the rest of the year. in the desktop computer, notebook computer and consumer electronics sectors of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to our customers increased sales of personal computers and consumer electronics during the winter holiday season. in the enterprise sector of our business, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. because our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our operating results will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because our overall growth may have reduced the impact of this seasonality in recent periods. for example, because of dramatic rates of growth exhibited by the consumer electronics applications in the march and june 2005 quarters followed by a period of component constraints during the september and december 2005 quarters which impacted our production capacity, we did not experience either a traditional seasonal decrease in sales of our products in the third and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 or a comparative seasonal increase in sales of our products in the first half of fiscal year 2006. the lack of seasonality in calendar year 2005 was atypical in the disc drive industry as evidenced by the modest seasonal decline we experienced in the march 2006 quarter, particularly with respect to disc drives for desktop and mobile applications, which continued in a more traditional pattern in the june 2006 quarter. given the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions in the consumer electronics market, we may experience significant variability in unit demand in future periods, which may be exacerbated by the highly seasonal nature of consumer electronics products generally. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disc drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter production. because we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. our ability to accurately predict demand may be even more challenged in the near term as our customers reposition their demand following our acquisition of maxtor, particularly in the markets served by maxtor. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; the timing of orders from, and the shipment of products to, key customers; unanticipated fluctuations in unit volume purchases from our customers, particularly our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales, particularly in the near term as our customers reposition their demand following our acquisition of maxtor; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; 22 table of contents accelerated reduction in the price of our disc drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disc drives in the market, a condition that is exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers and shifting trends in demand which can create supply demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our major manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, singapore and thailand; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. dependence on supply of equipment and components if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical equipment or components necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and availability of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disc drives and key components like media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disc drives include read/write heads, recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components, including recording media that we do not manufacture, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. in the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials, such as precious metals like platinum and ruthenium, that were in short supply in the industry in general. in addition, the recent increases in demand for small form factor mobile products have led to shortages in the components used in smaller form factor disc drives such as the glass substrates used to make the recording media for such drives. increasing unit growth for 3.5-inch and smaller form factor non-mobile disc drives could also lead to constraints for the supply of aluminum media and substrates. historically, the technology sector specifically, and the economy generally have experienced economic pressure, which has resulted in consolidation among component manufacturers and may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and 23 table of contents we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner, or at all. importance of reducing operating costs if we do not reduce our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time reducing operating expenses. in this regard, we are continually engaged in ongoing, company-wide manufacturing efficiency activities intended to increase productivity and reduce costs. our ongoing efforts to integrate maxtor business into our operations is a current focused instance of such activities. in the past, these activities have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. for example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, we undertook significant restructuring activities to reduce the costs of our operations and we continue to look at opportunities for further cost reductions, which may result in additional restructuring activities in the future. we cannot assure you that our efforts will result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. moreover, the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. in addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our oem customers. we cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. industry demand changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems has caused and may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disc drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. in a weak economy, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems generally cause sharp declines in demand for disc drive products. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disc drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disc drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of desktop disc drive products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in the second half of fiscal year 2004, a number of disc drive manufacturers independently launched initiatives to improve the stability of the distribution channel, particularly with respect to the purchasing behavior of these distributors, 24 table of contents while other disc drive manufacturers have not launched such initiatives. these actions have further increased the uncertainty as to demand within this market sector. to the extent that distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel, our results of operations would be adversely affected. longer product life cycles lengthening of product life cycles can make planning product transitions difficult and may reduce the favorable impact of new product transitions. in contrast to historical trends, based on our recent experience in the industry with respect to new product introductions, we believe that the current rate of growth in areal density is slowing from the rate of the last several years. we believe that this slowdown in the rate of growth in areal density will continue until a significant advance in technology for the electronic storage of data, such as perpendicular recording technology, becomes commercially available. when the rate of growth in areal density slows, it may contribute to increased average price erosion to the extent historical price erosion patterns continue, a limitation in our ability to introduce new products at higher prices and lengthened product life cycles which permits competitors more time to enter the market for a particular type of disc drive. in addition, the lengthening of product life cycles can make planning product transitions more difficult. to the extent that we prematurely discontinue a product, or do not timely introduce new products, our operating results may be adversely affected. because the rate of growth in areal density is slowing, the favorable impact of new product introductions on our results of operations may be minimized. historically, the introduction of new products generally has had a favorable impact on our results of operations both because the new products are introduced at higher prices than existing competitive offerings and because advances in areal density technology have enabled lower manufacturing costs through a reduction in components such as read/write heads and discs. however, in contrast to when the rate of growth in areal density is increasing, a slowing rate of growth in areal density can limit the cost benefits of new products because it is technologically more difficult to reduce the number of read/write heads and discs in a particular drive. in addition, given the environment of intense price competition, in the absence of significant capacity or reliability increases, it is difficult to obtain higher prices for new products. importance of time-to-market our operating results may depend on our being among the first-to-market and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disc drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our operating results have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. however, during a period of slowing areal density growth, such as we are in now, the importance of time-to-market may be less critical. our market share and operating results in the future may be adversely affected, particularly if the rate of growth in areal density resumes its historical pattern, if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems competitors. 25 table of contents moreover, we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may have become less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard, dell, emc, microsoft and ibm, account for a large portion of our disc drive revenue. our recent acquisition of maxtor may increase our business with certain of our larger customers. we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, however, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. dependence on growth in consumer electronics products our recent results have been materially benefited by significant growth in new consumer electronics products, which can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. our recent results have been materially benefited by significant growth in new consumer electronics applications like digital video recorders and digital music players which are experiencing unexpected growth after the typically high demand holiday season. while this growth enabled us in fiscal year 2005, and to a lesser extent in fiscal year 2006, to offset the traditional seasonal decline usually experienced in the march and june quarters, the demand for consumer electronics products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for compute products, which have been our traditional markets. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory, meeting the customers cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disc drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our operating results will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disc drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had product development expenses of $805 million, $645 million and $666 million, respectively. product development expenses for fiscal year 2006 included $28 million of non-cash charges associated with the acquisition of maxtor. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or 26 table of contents that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our operating results may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disc drive manufacturers. economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our desktop disc drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets . disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates . prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles . our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality . seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls . our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences . our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. 27 table of contents increased costs . the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks . our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the ongoing hostilities in afghanistan, iraq and lebanon and the risk of hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the united states and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to a lawsuit by convolve, inc. and the massachusetts institute of technology and a lawsuit pending in nanjing, china involving intellectual property claims. also, maxtor is subject to a lawsuit by papst licensing, gmbh involving patent infringement claims. also, on august 23, 2006, siemens ag, a german corporation, filed a complaint against us in the u.s. district court for the central district of california alleging that our current head technology infringes a siemens u.s. patent. in addition, read-rite corporation, in a letter dated november 19, 2002 and in correspondence after that date, asserted that, as of november 22, 2000, we no longer had a license to read-rite corporation patented head technology and that our disc drive products infringe at least two read-rite corporation patents. read-rite filed for bankruptcy on june 17, 2003, and western digital corporation purchased certain read-rite assets from the bankruptcy on july 23, 2003, including read-rite alleged patent infringement claims against us. on december 20, 2005, the bankruptcy court ruled that we did not have a right to a license to read-rite 28 table of contents corporation patented head technology after november 22, 2000. the bankruptcy court order was affirmed by the u.s. district court for the northern district of california on may 8, 2006, and we have decided not to appeal this decision. because of the read-rite bankruptcy, western digital also does not have a right to a license to our patented head technology. in addition, neither western digital nor seagate otherwise has a license to the other intellectual property. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. moreover, software patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. dependence on key personnel the loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. a significant part of our operations is based in an area of california that has experienced power outages and earthquakes and is considered seismically active. we do not have a contingency plan for addressing the kinds of events referred to in this paragraph that would be sufficient to prevent system failures and other interruptions in our operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. sox 404 compliance while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 from which we excluded the internal control over financial reporting of maxtor, which we acquired on may 19, 2006. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 30, 2006, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations. 29 table of contents future sales additional sales of our common shares by certain equity investors affiliated with certain of our directors or our executive officers or issuances by us in connection with future acquisitions or otherwise could cause the price of our common shares to decline. if certain equity investors affiliated with certain of our directors or our executive officers sell a substantial number of our common shares in the future, the market price of our common shares could decline. the perception among investors that these sales may occur could produce the same effect. any of silver lake partners, texas pacific group or august capital can unilaterally require that we file registration statements covering common shares held by them, and they and other equity investors including some of our executive officers have rights to include their common shares in certain registration statements that we may file. by exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common shares, any of these equity investors could cause the price of our common shares to decline. furthermore, if they were to include common shares in a registration statement initiated by us, those additional shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common shares. new sac has disposed of all of its shares in us through quarterly and monthly staged distributions to its more than 200 shareholders. in particular, new sac made quarterly distributions of 25 million of our common shares owned by it to the new sac shareholders beginning in the spring of 2005 and continuing for the next three quarters thereafter, for a total distribution in this manner of approximately 100 million common shares through january 2006. absent registration, these distributed shares will be illiquid and not eligible for re-sale in the public markets under rule 144 until 12 months from the date of their distribution out of new sac. the first of these quarterly distributed shares became eligible for resale under rule 144 on may 16, 2006 and the second of these distributions became eligible for resale on july 26, 2006. in addition to the distributions described in the previous paragraph, new sac distributed approximately 50 million of our common shares by making monthly distributions of approximately 10 million of our common shares to new sac shareholders from september 2005 through january 2006. offers to the public by the selling shareholders named in our registration statement on form s-3 of the approximately 50 million common shares distributed by new sac on a monthly basis may be made pursuant to the registration statement on form s-3. any sales by former new sac shareholders, their transferees or distributees, and in particular, certain equity investors affiliated with certain of our directors or our executive officers could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. one component of our business strategy is to make acquisitions. in the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue additional common shares. for example, in may 2006, we issued approximately 97 million of our common shares and assumed options and nonvested stock in connection with our acquisition of maxtor corporation. issuing shares in connection with acquisitions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. volatile public markets the price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; 30 table of contents general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; and the sale of our common shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our common shareholders could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. we paid quarterly dividends of $0.08 per share on each of august 19, 2005, november 18, 2005, february 17, 2006, may 19, 2006 and september 1, 2006 to our common shareholders of record as of august 5, 2005, november 4, 2005, february 3, 2006, may 5, 2006 and august 18, 2006, respectively. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disc drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings, and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by the covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. our payment of dividends may also result in a conversion rate adjustment under maxtor 2.375% convertible senior notes due 2012. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares. recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. for example, the eligibility for favorable tax treatment of taxable distributions paid to u.s. shareholders of seagate as qualified dividends could be eliminated. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disc drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio, or to hedge debt. as stated in our investment policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining portfolio investments in diversified, high-quality investment grade securities with limited time to maturity. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. we have both fixed and variable rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. at june 30, 2006, the company had $58 million in marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than twelve months. the unrealized loss on these marketable securities was immaterial. the table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 30, 2006. all investments mature in three years or less. fiscal year 2007 fiscal year 2008 fiscal year 2009 fiscal year 2010 fiscal year 2011 thereafter total fair value june 30, 2006 (in millions) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 752 $ 752 $ 752 average interest rate 5.12 % 5.12 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 586 $ 146 $ 31 $ 763 $ 755 average interest rate 3.42 % 4.23 % 4.67 % 3.63 % variable rate $ 68 $ 68 $ 68 average interest rate 4.37 % 4.37 % total investment securities $ 1,406 $ 146 $ 31 $ 1,583 $ 1,575 average interest rate 4.36 % 4.23 % 4.67 % 4.18 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 330 $ 5 $ 405 $ 140 $ 5 $ 30 $ 915 $ 1,060 average interest rate 2.43 % 5.75 % 7.97 % 6.76 % 5.75 % 5.75 % 5.69 % variable rate $ 30 $ 30 $ 60 $ 60 average interest rate 4.94 % 5.34 % 5.14 % foreign currency exchange risk. we transact business in various foreign countries. our primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market countries in asia and in european countries. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, we instituted a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the increase in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from expenses over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward exchange contracts. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in the value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the 55 table of contents forward contracts. these forward foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities between one and twelve months. the maximum original duration of forward foreign exchange contracts is twelve months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (expense) on the statement of operations. we did not have any net gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense) for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. as of june 30, 2006, our notional amount of foreign exchange forward contracts totaled $59 million. we do not believe that these derivatives present significant credit risks, because the counterparties to the derivatives consist of major financial institutions, and we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty. we maintain settlement and revaluation limits as well as maximum tenure of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. we do not enter derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the table below provides information as of june 30, 2006 about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value foreign currency forward exchange contracts: thai baht $ 18 38.50 $ singapore dollar 29 1.58 british pounds 12 1.81 $ 59 $ 56 table of contentsrisk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 or section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, each as amended) that are based on management current views and assumptions, and are conditioned upon and also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements due to, among other factors: the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives, particularly in view of current domestic and global economic uncertainty; our dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disc drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products; market conditions; our ability to achieve potential cost savings from restructuring activities; and alternative cash imperatives which could impact our ability to repurchase stock. such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual risks to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. certain forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as believes, expects, may, are expected to, will, will continue, should, would be, seeks or anticipates or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. some of these risk factors are set forth and are discussed in more detail in item 1a. risk factors. should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on form 10-k as anticipated, believed or expected. we do not intend, and do not 3 table of contents assume any obligation, to update any industry information or forward-looking statements set forth in this annual report on form 10-k to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. we encourage you to read that section in this form 10-k carefully. unfavorable changes in the above or other factors listed under item 1a. risk factors from time to time in our securities and exchange commission ( sec ) filings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, and financial condition and/or results of operations. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business we are the world leading provider of hard disc drives, based on revenue and units shipped. we design, manufacture, market and sell hard disc drives. hard disc drives, commonly referred to as disc drives or hard drives, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters or discs with magnetic surfaces. the performance attributes of disc drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities has resulted in disc drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data in systems ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer electronics devices to data centers delivering electronic data over corporate networks and the internet. we produce a broad range of disc drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are used in enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; desktop applications, where our products are used in desktop computers; mobile computing applications, where our products are used in notebook computers; and consumer electronics applications, where our products are used in a wide variety of devices such as digital video recorders (dvrs), gaming devices and other consumer electronic devices that require storage. we also sell our branded storage solutions under both the seagate and maxtor brands. in addition to manufacturing and selling disc drives, we provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. we sell our disc drives primarily to major original equipment manufacturers (oems) and we also market to distributors under our globally recognized brand names. we have longstanding relationships with many of our oem customers including hewlett-packard company ( hp ), dell inc. ( dell ), emc corporation ( emc ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ) and lenovo group limited ( lenovo ). for the fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximately 67%, 64% and 72%, respectively, of our disc drive revenue was from sales to oems. we also have key relationships with major distributors who sell our disc drive products to small oems, dealers, system integrators and retailers throughout most of the world. shipments to distributors were approximately 26%, 30% and 25% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal year 2008, as a percentage of our disc drive revenue, were 7%, compared to 6% and 3% in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 30% of our disc drive revenue came from customers located in north america, approximately 27% came from customers located in europe and approximately 43% came from customers located in the far east. the only customer exceeding 10% of our disc drive revenue for fiscal years 2006 through 2008 was hp. dell exceeded 10% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008 and 2006. substantially all of our revenue is denominated in u.s. dollars. industry overview electronic data storage industry the electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disc drives, tape storage, as well as semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory. participants in the electronic data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies such as tdk corporation ( tdk ), fuji electric device technology co., ltd. ( fuji ), and showa denko k.k. ( showa ), that supply heads and media to disc drive manufacturers as well as semiconductor companies such as samsung electronics co. ltd ( samsung ), sandisk corporation ( sandisk ), micron technology, inc. ( micron ), and intel corporation ( intel ), who each manufacture flash memory. hardware storage solutions manufactures. companies that transform components into storage products include disc drive manufacturers such as seagate technology, western digital corporation ( western digital ), 5 table of contents samsung, fujitsu limited ( fujitsu ), hitachi global storage technologies ( hitachi ) and toshiba corporation ( toshiba ), magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as quantum corporation ( quantum ), and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as samsung, sandisk, stec inc. ( stec ), and intel, whose operations include integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (ssds). ssds are storage applications that use flash technology as an alternative to disc drives. system integrators. companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into end-user, consumer electronics or enterprise applications include oems such as hp, dell, acer inc., lenovo and apple, inc. ( apple ); consumer electronics oems such as apple, sony, microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), motorola, inc. ( motorola ), directv group, inc., tivo inc. and scientific-atlanta inc., a subsidiary of cisco systems inc. company; enterprise storage system oems such as hp, emc and network appliance, inc. ( net app ); and distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end user applications. storage services . an emerging area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. demand for electronic data storage the electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on compute applications for the enterprise market. we believe that technological advances in storage technology and a proliferation of non-compute applications in the consumer electronics market such as digital video recorders (dvrs), gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras is increasingly driving the broad, global proliferation of digital content through the: creation and sharing of all types of digital content, including digital photos, video, movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings by companies such as youtube by google inc. ( google ), flickr by yahoo! inc. ( yahoo ), itunes by apple and myspace by news corporation ( news corp. ); network infrastructure , including broadband, cable and satellite that has enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content; enjoyment and consumption of digital content through dvrs, handheld applications, gaming consoles and in automobiles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and storage services. we believe that growth in digital content is being driven by: media-rich content, such as high definition video, digital photos, movies and music; an increase in user generated content, such as online video sharing, blogging and podcasting; the digitization of content previously stored in analog format such as paper filing systems; the duplication of content in multiple locations, including consumers replication of digital photos, video and other media. as a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such content. this in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions. we believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as increasing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in the nature and amount of data being stored has necessitated additional storage. additionally, the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. 6 table of contents demand for disc drives while the disc drive industry has traditionally been focused on applications for the enterprise and compute markets, we believe advances in disc drive capacity, cost per gigabyte, power and ruggedness have enabled growth in demand for digital content. these technological advances, as well as a proliferation of non-compute applications in the consumer electronics market, has increased the demand for disc drives used in consumer electronics applications or has indirectly driven the demand for additional disc drives to store, host or back up related media content created by such applications. disc drives are presently the most common storage solution in enterprise, desktop, mobile and higher capacity consumer electronics applications. we are particularly focused on the following areas of growing demand for disc drives: disc drives for mobile computing. the mobile computing market is growing faster than the market for desktop computers as price and performance continue to improve. notebook systems are increasingly becoming the preference for both consumers and enterprises as the need for mobility increases and wireless adoption continues to advance. we estimate that in fiscal year 2008, industry disc drive shipments for mobile compute applications grew approximately 45% from fiscal year 2007. the disc drive industry has recently seen the introduction of alternative technologies that directly compete with mobile disc drives. for example, certain manufacturers have introduced ssds, using flash memory technology, which is an alternative to disc drives in certain applications. due to the high capital requirements and capacity required to manufacture flash memory, we believe the perceived benefits of ssds are not currently realized at an attractive cost relative to hard disc drives, particularly in higher capacity applications. we believe that the market for these alternative technologies is still developing and because of the current high cost per gigabyte of these storage solutions, we do not expect these solutions to have a significant near-term impact on the overall market for disc drives for mobile computing. disc drives for enterprise storage. the need to address the expansion in data storage management requirements has spurred the evolution of new storage and data management technologies for both mission critical and business critical enterprise storage. mission critical enterprise storage is defined by the use of high performance, high capacity disc drives for use in applications which are vital to the operation of enterprises. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to grow, driven by many enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks (sans). in addition, many enterprises are moving away from the use of server-attached storage to network-attached storage (nas). both of these solutions are comprised principally of high performance, high capacity disc drives with sophisticated software and communications technologies. in addition, many enterprises are also consolidating data centers, aiming to increase speed and reliability within a smaller space, reducing network complexity and increasing energy savings, which has led to an increased demand for more energy efficient, small form factor disc drives. ssd storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disc drives. in addition, enterprises are considering the use of ssds in applications where rapid processing is required for high volume transaction data. the timing of the adoption of ssds in these applications is currently unknown as enterprises weigh the cost benefits of mission critical enterprise disc drives relative to the perceived performance benefits of ssds. business critical enterprise storage is an emerging and growing application in enterprise storage whereby enterprises are using higher capacity disc drives to store less frequently accessed, less time-critical, but capacity-intensive data. because of recent decreases in cost per gigabyte, business critical electronic data, which historically has been stored on tape or other backup and archival technologies, are now being stored on these high capacity disc drives. in the long-term, however, we believe that this trend towards business critical systems that utilize high capacity, enterprise class serial advanced technology architecture (sata) and serial attached small computer system interface (sas) will, in addition to expanding the overall enterprise market, likely shift some demand from disc drives used in traditional mission critical enterprise storage. 7 table of contents disc drives for branded solutions . we believe that the proliferation of media-rich digital content has increased consumer demand for storage to augment their current desktop or notebook disc drive capacities. consumers are also using external branded storage solutions to backup and secure data in case of disaster or system failure. disc drives for desktop computing. we believe growth in disc drives for desktop computing has recently moderated, in part due to the growth in demand for notebook computers, particularly in developed countries. we believe that current growth in demand for disc drives in desktop computing is focused on developing markets where price remains a primary consideration. demand for inexpensive, high capacity external storage has also driven growth of 3.5-inch desktop disc drives. disc drives for consumer electronics. disc drives in the consumer electronics markets are primarily used in high-capacity solutions, such as dvrs, that require more storage capability than can be provided in a cost-effective manner through alternative technologies such as flash memory, which is used in lower capacity consumer electronics applications. we believe the demand for disc drives in consumer electronics will become more pronounced with the increased amount of high definition content that requires larger amounts of storage capacity. although solid state or flash memory has largely replaced disc drives in handheld applications, we believe that the demand for disc drives to store, hold or back up related media content from such handheld devices, continues to grow. success in the disc drive industry depends on technology and manufacturing leadership, high levels of capital and research and development investments and large scale operations the design and manufacturing of disc drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques, especially in the areas of read/write heads and recording media, thereby requiring high levels of capital and significant research and development investments. disc drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the technology used in their products, and by whether they are captive, producing disc drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disc drives as a stand-alone product. integrated manufacturers are companies that design and produce the critical technologies, including read/write heads and recording media, used in their disc drives. an integrated approach enables them to lower manufacturing costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. in contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of their components from third-party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. this can limit their ability to coordinate technology roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the technology investment decisions of their suppliers. independent manufacturers can enjoy a competitive advantage over captive manufacturers in working with oems because they do not compete with oems for computer system sales. we believe the competitive dynamics of the disc drive industry favor integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers. due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and because of the increasing amounts of capital and research and development investments required, the disc drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disc drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. through such combinations, disc drive manufacturers have also become increasingly vertically integrated. while recent combinations have limited the opportunity for additional industry consolidation, the increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large-scale operations, may still drive future industry consolidation. disc drive technology overview all of our disc drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disc assembly and a printed circuit board, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing these components in a contamination controlled environment. 8 table of contents the head disc assembly consists of one or more discs attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the discs at a high constant speed around a hub. the discs, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. each disc typically consists of a substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass with a layer of a thin-film magnetic material. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disc surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating discs. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside a metal casing, called the base casing. the printed circuit board contains standard and custom application specific integrated circuits (asics) and ancillary electronic control chips. asics move data to and from the read/write head and the internal controller, or interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form an electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disc where the data is recorded or retrieved. disc drive manufacturers typically use one or more of several industry standard interfaces such as advanced technology architecture (ata); sata, which provides higher data transfer rates than the previous ata standard; small computer system interface (scsi); sas; and fibre channel. disc drive performance disc drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (gb) or terabytes (tb), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disc; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (rpm), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disc drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disc surface, data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disc; and product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates (arr). areal density areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disc. current areal densities are sufficient to meet the requirements of most applications today. the capacity of a disc drive is determined by the number of discs it contains as well as the areal density of these discs. we expect the long-term demand for increased disc drive capacities will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media-rich content. in particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue to increase in size, with high definition video content an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. we believe that demand will further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of content. we have pursued, and expect to continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products to increase disc drive capacities allowing us to use fewer discs per disc drive and potentially reduce product costs overtime. manufacturing we pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component cost, quality and availability. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to 9 table of contents meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disc drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency and flexibility; improving product quality and reliability, and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ. manufacturing our disc drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled unit. we design, fabricate and/or assemble a number of the most important components found in our disc drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disc drive products that serve multiple disc drive applications and markets. as an example, our 3.5-inch sata disc drive with perpendicular recording technology platform is sold to customers for use in desktop, enterprise and consumer electronics applications. our main technology platforms are primarily focused around areal density of media and read/write head technologies. our integrated platform technologies and manufacturing allow our set of disc drive products to be used in a wide range of electronic data storage applications and in a wide range of industries. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disc as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disc drive industry. beginning with six and eight-inch round ceramic wafers, we process more than 30,000 head elements at one time. each of these head elements goes through more than 500 steps, all in clean room environments. we have upgraded our fabrication facilities in capital equipment and systems to deliver the required complexity and precision needed to complete our product transition to perpendicular recording technology, which we achieved during fiscal year 2008. additional capital investments will be driven primarily by volume. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we currently manufacture all of our read/write heads. we are currently evaluating third party read/write head for use in future products. recording heads and media. the percentage of our requirements for recording media that we produce internally varies from quarter to quarter. our long-term strategy is to externally purchase approximately 10% of total recording media requirements. in july 2008, we announced the proposed closure of our recording media manufacturing facility in milpitas, california. the closure is part of our ongoing focus on cost-efficiencies in all areas of our business. we plan to cease production at the milpitas manufacturing facility in october 2008. we are continuing to expand our recording media production facilities in singapore. we expect meaningful output from our new media facility in singapore beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and we believe we will have adequate internal and external supply plans in place to support our requirements. similar to our long-term strategy on recording media supply, our future plans include the evaluation and external purchase of approximately 10% of recording heads requirements. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties (mainly in japan), which are used to manufacture our disc drives for mobile and small form factor consumer electronics products. historically, we purchase approximately 70% of our aluminum substrates for recording media production from third parties. in december 2007, we announced the proposed closure of our substrate manufacturing facility in limavady, northern ireland. 10 table of contents the proposed closure is part of our ongoing focus on cost-efficiencies in all areas of our business. we plan to cease production at our limavady facility during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. we are in the process of adding an aluminum substrate manufacturing facility in johor, malaysia which will allow us to be more cost competitive and position us for future expansion, and reduce our external substrate purchases to approximately 50%. we expect meaningful output from our johor facility in during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disc drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, that are subject to fluctuations in prices, and the supply of which has at times been constrained. recent increases in the price of many commodities have resulted in higher material costs for our products. additionally, adverse economic conditions such as rising fuel costs may further increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. should we not be able to pass these increased costs onto our customers, our gross margins may be impacted. in order to mitigate susceptibility to these conditions, we may maintain increased inventory of precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities. in addition, we have increased our use of ocean shipments to help offset the increase in freight costs. printed circuit boards. printed circuit boards are the boards that contain the electronic circuitry and asics that provide the electronic controls of the disc drive and on which the head-disc assembly is mounted. during fiscal year 2008, we completed the outsourcing of the manufacture and assembly of the printed circuit boards used in our disc drives to third parties. spindle motors. we participate in the design of many of our spindle motors and purchase them principally from outside vendors in asia, whom we have licensed to use our intellectual property and technology. asics. we participate in the design of many of the asics used in our disc drives for motor and actuator control, such as interface controllers, read/write channels and pre-amplifiers. we do not manufacture any asics but, rather, buy them from third-party suppliers. disc drive assembly. following the production of the individual components of the disc drive, the first step in the manufacture of a disc drive itself is the assembly of the actuator arm, read/write heads, discs and spindle motor in a housing to form the head-disc assembly. the production of the head-disc assembly involves largely automated processes. printed circuit boards are then mated to the head-disc assembly and the completed unit is tested prior to packaging and shipment. disc drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china, singapore and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, and in the united states, in california and minnesota. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various asian countries, including china, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan, thailand and vietnam, in europe and the united states. products we offer a broad range of disc drive products for the enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and branded solutions markets of the disc drive industry. we now utilize perpendicular recording technology in all the major markets described below. in addition, we intend to introduce ssd products for select markets in the future. we offer more than one product within each product family, and differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and form factor, the dimensions of the disc drive, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disc encryption and other customer integration requirements. more than ever, our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contributes to rapid product life cycles. we list below our main current product offerings. 11 table of contents enterprise storage cheetah scsi/sas/fibre channel family. our cheetah 3.5-inch disc drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 450gb. commercial uses for cheetah disc drives include internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging. savvio scsi/sas/fibre channel family. savvio, our 2.5-inch enterprise disc drives designed to enable space optimization, maximized performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 36gb to 146gb. this disc drive allows the installation of more disc drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data. we believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disc drives. we are currently shipping our 2nd generation savvio disc drive featuring increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. barracuda es sata family. our barracuda es 3.5-inch disc drives ship in 7,200 rpm and in storage capacities ranging from 250gb to 1tb. the barracuda es addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use of business critical storage systems for capacity-intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized performance and availability. we have also introduced 7,200 rpm drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250gb to 1tb. mobile computing momentus ata/sata family. our momentus family of disc drives for mobile computing disc drive products, ships in 5,400 and 7,200 rpm and in capacities ranging from 30gb to 320gb. commercial uses for momentus disc drives include notebook computers running popular office applications and notebook computers for business, government and education environments. consumer uses for momentus disc drives include notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio applications. our momentus 7200.2 is a 7,200 rpm disc drive for high-performance notebooks. ld25.2 family. our ld25.2 series 2.5-inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40gb and 80gb at 5,400 rpm, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook computers. desktop storage barracuda ata/sata family. our barracuda 3.5-inch disc drive delivers storage capacities of up to 1tb at 7,200 rpm and is used in applications such as pcs, workstations and personal external storage devices. additionally, we are currently shipping a 3.5-inch disc drive with 320gb of capacity on a single disc. diamondmax family. our diamondmax 3.5-inch disc drives deliver storage capacities of up to 1tb at 7,200 rpm and are targeted at pcs, non-traditional ata and external storage applications. consumer electronics storage barracuda ata/sata family. we also sell some of our 3.5-inch barracuda disc drives for use mainly in dvr s. our db35 series disc drives, with storage capacities up to 1tb, are optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment. momentus ata/sata family. we sell our 2.5-inch, 7,200 and 5,400 rpm momentus disc drives, including our ld25 series of momentus family of disc drives with capacities ranging from 20gb up to 250gb, for use in low-profile dvr s, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media pcs. 12 table of contents branded solutions our branded solutions business provides storage products including various home and office storage applications. we ship external backup storage solutions under our free agent tm and maxtor onetouch tm product lines. both of these product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disc drives, which are available in capacities up to 2tb and 320gb, respectively. customers we sell our disc drive products primarily to major oems and distributors. oem customers, either themselves or through their contract manufacturers, incorporate our disc drives into computer systems and storage systems for resale. distributors typically sell our disc drives to small oems, dealers, system integrators and other resellers. shipments to oems were approximately 67%, 64% and 72% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. shipments to distributors were approximately 26%, 30% and 25% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the only customer exceeding 10% of our disc drive revenue for fiscal years 2006 through 2008 was hp. dell exceeded 10% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008 and 2006. sales to hp accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 17% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. sales to dell, as a percentage of our disc drive revenue, were 11%, 9% and 11% in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. no other customer accounted for 10% or more of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal year 2008 as a percentage of our disc drive revenue increased to 7% from 6% and 3% in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions. the term of these agreements is usually 12 to 36 months, although our product support obligations generally extend substantially beyond this period. these master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. we have increased our sales of branded storage products to retail customers in the last two years further expanding our retail customer base. our branded storage product is sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. we also regularly enter into agreements with our customers, which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses resulting from intellectual property claims. these agreements are customary in our industry and typically require us to indemnify our customers against certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising as a result of their use of our products. sales, marketing and customer service our marketing organization works to increase demand for our disc drive products through strategic collaboration with key oem customers and distribution partners to align our respective product roadmaps and to 13 table of contents build our brand and end-customer relationships. as customers and markets increasingly demand a broad variety of products with different performance and cost attributes, we have marketing groups focused on the strategic needs of our increasingly diverse customer base. we believe this enables us to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and serve emerging markets. our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship with our customers. the worldwide sales group focuses on geographic coverage of oems and distributors throughout most of the world. the worldwide sales group is organized by customer type and regionally among americas, japan, asia-pacific (excluding japan) and europe, africa and the middle east. in addition, we have a sales operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels with customers product requirements. our sales force works directly with our marketing organization to coordinate our oem and distribution channel relationships. we maintain sales offices throughout the united states and in australia, china, france, germany, japan, singapore, taiwan and the united kingdom. with the acquisition of maxtor, we acquired the right to the use the maxtor and other related brand names. we believe the maxtor brand is a valuable asset, and we intend to continue to offer the maxtor brand of products to consumers globally to broaden our reach into and coverage of these channels as well as optimize the impact of our marketing investments. our customer service organization maintains a global network of service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced repair vendors. we generally warrant our products for periods ranging from three to five years. foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval by the office of export administration of the u.s. department of commerce and other u.s. governmental agencies. competition the markets that we compete in are intensely competitive, with disc drive manufacturers not only competing for a limited number of major disc drive customers, but also increasingly competing with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and ssds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity; price per unit and price per gigabyte; storage/retrieval access times; data transfer rates; product quality and reliability; supply continuity; form factor; warranty; and brand. we believe that our disc drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. we summarize below our principal disc drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology. principal disc drive competitors. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. these competitors include independent disc drive manufacturers such as western digital, as well as large captive manufacturers such as fujitsu, samsung, hitachi, and toshiba. because they produce complete computer systems and other non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, these captive manufacturers can derive a greater portion of their operating margins from other components, which reduces their need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in their computer systems and allows them to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources and greater access to their internal customers than we do. in addition, toshiba and samsung, each are increasingly integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory, hybrid disc drives and ssds into its product offerings. not only may they be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio allows them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over the other. they can offer a broad range of storage media and solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest sales. in connection with our branded storage products, in addition to 14 table of contents competing with our disc drive competitors, we also compete with companies such as lacie s.a. that purchase disc drives for use in their branded storage products from us and our competitors. other competitors. we also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, which have substantially replaced disc drives in lower capacity handheld devices. principal competitors include samsung, toshiba, micron, sandisk and intel. price erosion. our industry has been characterized by continuous price erosion for disc drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets (i.e., like-for-like products ). price erosion for like-for-like products ( price erosion ) is more pronounced during periods of: industry consolidation in which competitors aggressively use discounted price to gain market share; few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and seasonally weaker demand which may cause excess supply. disc drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disc drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. we expect price erosion in our industry will continue for the foreseeable future. to remain competitive, we believe it will be necessary to continue to reduce prices as well as introduce new product offerings that utilize advanced technologies ahead of our competitors in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structure on these new products. product life cycles and changing technology. our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have contributed to rapid product life cycles. as a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products, allowing those disc drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated the need to quickly achieve product cost effectiveness. changing technology also necessitates the need for on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and reliability on a cost-effective basis. introduction of any technology that delivers storage at an attractive price, or has other features not offered by disc drives, may be disruptive to the disc drive industry. seasonality the disc drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. in addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year when it budget calendars provide for more spending. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state technology. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a common platform and subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, reduces 15 table of contents exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disc drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology as well as technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had product development expenses of approximately $1 billion, $904 million and $805 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 8% and 9% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. patents and licenses as of june 27, 2008, we had approximately 4,015 u.s. patents and 723 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,188 u.s. and 579 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secret law, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are generally more important than patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. nevertheless, we believe that patents are valuable to our business and intend to continue our efforts to protect and obtain patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 3. legal proceedings. the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been and may be substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to licenses. backlog in view of our customers rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disc drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. employees at june 27, 2008, we employed approximately 54,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which approximately 42,000 employees were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. 16 table of contents we have established environmental systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the superfund law and its state equivalents), can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we were identified as a potentially responsible party at several superfund sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disc drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006 as well as the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including disc drives, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 12, 2008. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. william d. watkins chief executive officer and director age 55 mr. watkins has been chief executive officer since 2004, and a director of seagate since 2000. prior to that, he was president and chief executive officer from 2004 to 2006; president and chief operating officer from 2000 to 2004; executive vice president and chief operating officer from 1998 to 2000; and executive vice president, recording media operations from 1996 to 1998. mr. watkins is also a member of the board of directors of maxim integrated products, inc. david a. wickersham president and chief operating officer age 52 mr. wickersham has been president since 2006 and chief operating officer since 2004. he served as chief operating officer and executive vice president from 2004 to 2006; executive vice president, global disc storage operations from 2000 to 2004, senior vice president, worldwide product line management from 1999 to 2000; and senior vice president, worldwide materials from 1998 to 1999. charles c. pope executive vice president and chief financial officer age 53 mr. pope has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since 1999. from 1998 to 1999 he was senior vice president and chief financial officer. prior to that, he was senior vice president finance, storage products from 1997 to 1998; vice president finance, storage products from 1996 to 1997; vice president/general manager, media from 1994 to 1996; vice president finance and treasurer from 1991 to 1994; and vice president, finance far east operations from 1989 to 1991. brian s. dexheimer division president, consumer solutions age 45 mr. dexheimer has been division president of our consumer solutions division since march 2008. he served as executive vice president and chief sales &amp; marketing officer from 2006 to 2008. prior to that he was executive vice president, storage business and worldwide sales, marketing and customer service from 2005 to 2006; executive vice president, worldwide sales, marketing and customer service from 2000 to 2005; senior vice president, worldwide sales from 1999 to 2000; senior vice president, personal storage group/product line management from 1998 to 1999; vice president, and general manager, removable storage solutions from 1997 to 1998. robert whitmore executive vice president and chief technology officer age 46 mr. whitmore has been executive vice president product and process development and chief technology officer since 2007. prior to that he was executive vice president, product and process development from 2006 to 2007; senior vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006; senior vice president, product development engineering from 2002 to 2004; vice president, enterprise storage design engineering from 1999 to 2002, vice president and executive director, twin cities manufacturing operations from 1997 to 1999; senior director, manufacturing engineering, singapore operations from 1995 to 1997; and senior manager, design engineering, twin cities division from 1992 to 1995. d. kurt richarz executive vice president, sales and customer service operations age 47 mr. richarz joined seagate in may 2006, when we acquired maxtor. he has served as our executive vice president, sales and customer service operations since may 2008. previously, he served as vice president of global oem sales from 2006 to 2007 and senior vice president of global oem sales from 2007 to 2008. at maxtor, from 2002 to 2006, he served as vice president, global oem account sales and senior vice president of worldwide sales. from 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at quantum corporation. 18 table of contents jaroslaw s. glembocki senior vice president, recording heads and media age 52 mr. glembocki has been senior vice president, recording heads and media operations since 2000. prior to that he was senior vice president/general manager, recording media group, from 1997 to 2000; and vice president, engineering and cto media from 1996 to 1997. w. david mosley senior vice president, global disc storage operations age 41 mr. mosley has been senior vice president, global disc storage operations since 2007. prior to that, he was vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007; senior director, research and development, engineering from 2000 to 2002; director, research and development, engineering from 1998 to 2000; and manager, operations and manufacturing from 1996 to 1998. patrick j. o malley senior vice president, finance, principal accounting officer and treasurer 1 age 46 mr. o malley has been senior vice president, finance since october 2005, and assumed the additional roles of principal accounting officer and treasurer in 2006. prior to that, he was senior vice president, consumer electronics from 2004 to 2005; senior vice president, finance, manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; vice president, finance-recording media from 1997 to 1999; senior director finance, desktop design, from 1996 to 1997; senior director, finance, oklahoma city operations from 1994 to 1996; director of finance/ manager, corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 1991 to 1994; manager, consolidations &amp; cost accounting from 1990 to 1991; manager, consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and senior financial analyst in 1988. glen a. peterson senior vice president, worldwide finance age 46 mr. peterson has been senior vice president, worldwide finance since january 2004. prior to that, he was vice president, finance and treasurer from 1998 to 2004; and director, strategic planning from 1995 to 1998. kenneth m. massaroni senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary age 47 mr. massaroni has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since april 2008. he served as vice president and acting general counsel from december 2007 to april 2008, and vice president of intellectual property from 2006 to december 2007. prior to joining seagate in 2006, massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at scientific-atlanta from 1997 to 2006. in addition, massaroni has also held senior patent counsel positions at motorola from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at optical imaging systems from 1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at energy conversion devices from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of collier, shannon, rill and scott from 1992 to 1993. david z. anderson vice president, finance, storage markets age 43 mr. anderson joined seagate in 1995, and has served as our vice president, finance, storage markets, since 2007. he previously held positions as vice president, finance, asia operations from 2005 to 2007 and senior director, corporate accounting, compliance and external reporting and corporate financial planning &amp; analysis from 2003 to 2005. prior to 2003, mr. anderson held a variety of progressively senior management positions within the finance organization of the company. on july 1, 2008, mr. anderson was appointed principal accounting officer and treasurer of the company. the transition by which mr. anderson will assume the responsibilities of these offices began on july 1, 2008, and he will formally acquire the titles on august 25, 2008. 1 on april 24, 2008, the board of directors appointed mr. o malley to serve as executive vice president and chief financial officer of seagate, effective as of august 25, 2008. mr. o malley will succeed mr. pope, who, on april 24, 2008, notified seagate of his intention to retire from his position as chief financial officer as of august 25, 2008. effective as of august 25, 2008, mr. pope will transition to the position of executive vice president, strategic planning and corporate development. 19 table of contents financial information financial information for the company reportable business segments and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 6, business segment and geographic information. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934 ( 1934 exchange act ), as amended, and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. because the company makes filings to the sec electronically, you may access this information at the sec internet site: www.sec.gov . this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. web site access. our internet web site address is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investor relations portion of this web site, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our web site. information in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not part of this form 10-k. corporate information we were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the cayman islands. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business competition our industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced and will continue to experience significant price erosion and market share variability. even during periods when demand is strong, the disc drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. we will need to continually reduce our prices to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe this basic industry condition of continuing price erosion and market share variability will continue, as our competitors engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand. the pricing environment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 was substantially as we had initially expected, and we expect continuous price erosion for fiscal year 2009 as our competitors continue these efforts. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when product life cycles for particular products are extended, allowing competitors more time to enter the market. the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector may also contribute to increased price erosion. these customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increases the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. as a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our result of operations. additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors, particularly in the notebook and small form factor enterprise markets. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings, which are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. principal competitors we compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disc drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disc drives to maintain their profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disc drive manufacturers and large captive manufacturers such as: independent manufacturers captive manufacturers western digital corporation fujitsu limited gs magicstor inc. hitachi global storage technologies samsung electronics incorporated toshiba corporation the term independent in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disc drives as a stand-alone product, and the term captive refers to disc drive manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated 21 table of contents entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disc drives or other electronic data storage products. captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. because components other than disc drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disc drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in a complete computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. in addition, captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. samsung and hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, asics and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. this may improve their ability to compete with us. to the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disc drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disc drives, manufacturers of disc drives have had to develop large, in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. the development of large production facilities and industry consolidation can contribute to the intensification of competition. we face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disc drives or other electronic data storage products. we have also experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives in handheld applications. while this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have recently announced solid state drives ( ssds ) for notebook and enterprise compute applications. some of these companies, like samsung, also sell disc drives. certain customers for both enterprise and notebook compute applications have indicated an interest in investigating ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. volatility of quarterly results our quarterly operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and this may cause our share prices to decline. in the past, our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and other major regions in which we do business, though especially in the united states, where economic activity slowed during the second half of our fiscal 2008; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disc drives with lower cost structures, due to inability to achieve high production yields, delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components, especially in light of recent consolidation among component suppliers, building inflationary pressure, and the continuing weakness of the u.s. dollar as compared to other currencies; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we may engage in; 22 table of contents changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disc drives, due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers, particularly as our competitors are able to introduce and produce in volume competing disc drive solutions or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash memory or ssds; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; and announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. new product offerings market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. we are continually developing new products with the goal that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower cost disc drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales and declining gross margins on our current generation products. we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, then our future results of operations may be adversely affected. smaller form factor disc drives if we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disc drives, our business may suffer. the disc drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disc drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronics devices, but also including personal computers and enterprise storage applications. much of our recent revenue growth is derived from the sale of small form factor drives for notebook and enterprise applications. our continued success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce such small form factor drives at desired price and capacity points faster than our competitors. we have experienced competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like solid state or flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and 23 table of contents performance ruggedness have resulted in flash memory largely replacing disc drives in handheld applications. we believe that the demand for disc drives to store or back up related media content from such handheld devices, however, continues to grow. while this competition has traditionally been limited to the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications, these competitors have announced ssds for notebook and enterprise compute applications. if we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disc drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage technology, or if our competitors are successful in achieving customer acceptance of ssd products for notebook and enterprise compute applications, then our customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. seasonality because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for disc drives. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the mobile compute, desktop compute and consumer electronics sectors of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to our customers increased sales of personal computers and consumer electronics during the winter holiday season. in the enterprise sector of our business, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our operating results will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the consumer electronics market. difficulty in predicting quarterly demand if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments. the disc drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter coming at the end of that quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. another factor that may negatively affect our ability to recapture costs of investments in future quarters is the current uncertain condition of the domestic and global economy. the current uncertainty in economic and political conditions in many of our markets may have an affect on demand for our products and render budgeting and forecasting difficult. the difficulty in forecasting demand increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disc drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as ssds in notebook and enterprise compute applications; 24 table of contents our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disc drive products, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures; variations in the cost of components for our products, especially in view of the u.s. dollar continued weakness as compared to other currencies; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disc drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disc drives in the market, a condition that is exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers and shifting trends in demand which can create supply demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our major manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, singapore or thailand; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. importance of time-to-market our operating results may depend on our being among the first-to-market and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products. to achieve consistent success with our oem customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disc drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per gigabyte storage cost. historically, our operating results have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. our market share and operating results in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. if delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. if the delay of our products causes delivery of those oems computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the oems competitors. moreover, we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. 25 table of contents dependence on sales of disc drives in consumer electronics applications our sales of disc drives for consumer electronics applications which have contributed significant revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. our sales of disc drives for consumer electronics applications have contributed significant revenues to our results for the past several years. the growth rate in consumer electronics products has recently begun to moderate and show more seasonal demand variability. the demand for consumer electronics products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for compute products, particularly as it is difficult to predict the cycles in which, for example, new gaming products are launched and consumer uptake of those products. in some cases, our products manufactured for consumer electronics applications are uniquely configured for a single customer application, which creates a risk of exposure if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory, meeting the customers cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disc drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on sales of disc drives directly to consumers through retail outlets our sales of disc drives directly to consumers through retail outlets can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. we believe that industry demand for storage products is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fuelling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. the current uncertainty in the domestic and global economy may negatively affect demand for such products. further, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on our maintaining effective working relationships with major retail and online distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. dependence on supply of components, equipment, and raw materials if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and availability of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disc drives and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important components for disc drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components, including media, aluminum and glass substrates that we do not manufacture, recording media and heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or 26 table of contents make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. consolidation among component manufacturers may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner, or at all. perpendicular recording technology products based on perpendicular technology require increased quantities of precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium which increases risk of higher costs and production delays that could adversely impact our operating results. perpendicular recording technology also requires recording media with more layers and the use of more precious metals and scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. these precious metals and scarce alloys have recently become increasingly expensive and at times difficult to acquire. accordingly, we will be exposed to increased risks that higher costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and scarce alloys could adversely impact our operating results. importance of controlling operating costs if we do not control our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. in the past, these activities have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. moreover, the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. in addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our oem customers. we cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. industry demand changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems have caused and may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products. our disc drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. in a weak economy, consumer spending 27 table of contents tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronic devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for disc drive products. additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of disc drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disc drive manufacturers than usual. dependence on distributors we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. in addition to our own sales force, a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of desktop disc drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. to the extent that distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel, and to the extent that our distributor relationships are terminated, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. accounting charges related to acquisition of maxtor and other recently acquired companies we expect the acquisition of maxtor and other recently acquired companies will continue to result in additional accounting charges, which may continue to have an adverse effect on our fiscal year 2009 operating results. we expect that, as a result of the acquisition of maxtor and other recently acquired companies, our fiscal year 2009 results of operations will continue to be adversely affected by non-cash accounting charges, the most significant of which relates to the amortization of acquired intangible assets. dependence on key customers we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers. some of our key customers, including hewlett-packard, dell, emc, mitac and bell microproducts, account for a large portion of our disc drive revenue. we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, however, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 28 table of contents impact of technological change increases in the areal density of disc drives may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disc, may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like commercial desktop compute. as a result, our customers storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disc drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in electronic data storage products future changes in the nature of electronic data storage products may reduce demand for traditional disc drive products. we expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and products will be developed, some of which, such as internet appliances, may not contain a disc drive. while we are investing development resources in designing disc drives for new applications, it is too early to assess the impact of these new applications on future demand for disc drive products. products using alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical storage and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to particular applications of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. new product development and technological change if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our operating results will be adversely affected. our customers have demanded new generations of disc drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our operating results may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disc drive manufacturers or competing technologies. risks associated with future strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances with, and making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with, or investments in, other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, joint venture, investment or strategic partnership candidates. even if we were able to identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the indentures that govern our outstanding indebtedness, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. 29 table of contents if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our operating results, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional common shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. risk of intellectual property litigation our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. historically, patent applications in the united states and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. we are currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely effect our results of operations and financial condition: actions brought in the united states by convolve, inc., and the massachusetts institute of technology, siemens ag, and stormedia texas llc. intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. moreover, patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. if we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. moreover, if we are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see see part ii, item 8, note 9, legal, environmental, and other contingencies intellectual property litigation for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. 30 table of contents dependence on key personnel the loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. substantial leverage our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; our interest expense could increase if prevailing interest rates increase, because a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at floating rates; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. significant debt service requirements servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that resulted from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. 31 table of contents if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. in addition, our existing debt instruments permit us to incur a significant amount of additional debt. if we incur additional debt above the levels now in effect, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. restrictions imposed by debt covenants restrictions imposed by our existing credit facility may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. our existing credit facility imposes, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. our existing credit facility may also limit, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our shares; redeem or repurchase shares; make investments or other restricted payments; sell assets; issue or sell shares of restricted subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; create liens; and effect a consolidation or merger. these covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, including exceptions that permit us to make significant dividends. our credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of any of the covenants described above or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our credit facility. if a default occurs, the administrative agent of the credit facility may elect to declare all of our outstanding obligations under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. system failures system failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. while we continue to improve our disaster recovery processes, system failures and other interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 table of contents economic risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital and health-related risks. we have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. a substantial portion of our desktop disc drive assembly occurs in our facility in china. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. currency instability in asia and other geographic markets may make our products more expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in the local currency. moreover, many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the united states are denominated in local currencies. as a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the u.s. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. from time to time, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and profitability in the future. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. tariffs, duties, limitations on trade and price controls. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and other restraints on trade. in addition, the governments of many countries, including china, malaysia, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. 33 table of contents political risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism. we have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest, with thailand being a recent example. this could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. u.s. and international responses to the ongoing hostilities in afghanistan and iraq and the risk of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks. legal and operational risks associated with international operations our international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property. operating outside of the united states creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. we also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. sox 404 compliance while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 27, 2008, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management time in connection with further evaluations. volatile public markets the price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; and the sale of our common shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. 34 table of contents failure to pay quarterly dividends our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our common shareholders could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. on july 15, 2008, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share that will be paid on or before august 15, 2008 to our common shareholders of record as of august 1, 2008. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disc drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings, and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility. any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. our payment of dividends to holders of our common shares may in certain future quarters result in upward adjustments to the conversion rate of the 2.375% convertible senior notes due august 2012. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares. potential governmental action governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares. recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either seagate or its shareholders. for example, the eligibility for favorable tax treatment of taxable distributions paid to u.s. shareholders of seagate as qualified dividends could be eliminated. securities litigation significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disc drive companies and technology companies generally. the price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. current global credit and financial market conditions current global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments, or auction rate securities and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors, including us, from liquidating auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale at auction has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. during the quarter ended june 27, 2008, all $31 million of our auction rate securities continued to fail at auction. as a result we recorded a temporary unrealized loss of $3 million to other comprehensive income. we will continue to analyze our auction rate securities each reporting period for impairment as we may be required to record an impairment charge if in the future we determine that there is a decline in the fair value which is other than temporary. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any other downgrades, losses, failed auctions or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments since june 27, 2008, 35 table of contents no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments or auction rate securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in either our investment portfolio or to hedge debt. as stated in our investment policy, we are averse to principal loss and ensure the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk and market risk. we mitigate default risk by maintaining portfolio investments in diversified, high-quality investment grade securities with limited time to maturity. we constantly monitor our investment portfolio and position our portfolio to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. we maintain a highly liquid portfolio by investing only in marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets. at june 27, 2008, our exposure to sub-prime mortgage securities was not significant. as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, losses or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments since june 27, 2008. we have both fixed and variable rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. we currently do not use interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. at june 27, 2008, we had no marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months and determined no investments were other-than-temporarily impaired. investment securities . as of june 27, 2008, we held auction rate securities in the amount of $31 million, all of which are collateralized by pools of student loans guaranteed by the federal family education loan program. during the fiscal 2008 year, these securities failed to settle at auction and as a result we recorded an unrealized loss of $3 million and reclassified the securities to long-term investments. 68 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 27, 2008. all investments, other than our auction rate securities, mature in three years or less. included in long term debt for fiscal year 2009, is the principal amount of $326 million related to our 2.375% notes which is payable upon the conversion of the 2.375% notes, which are currently convertible, as our share price was in excess of 110% of the conversion price for at least 20 consecutive trading days during the last 30 trading days of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. unless earlier converted, the 2.375% notes must be redeemed in august 2012. fiscal years ended 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value june 27, 2008 (in millions, except percentages) assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 911 $ $ $ $ $ $ 911 $ 911 average interest rate 2.41 % 2.41 % short-term investments: fixed rate $ 90 $ 35 $ 25 $ $ $ $ 150 $ 151 average interest rate 4.21 % 5.38 % 4.33 % 4.51 % long-term investments: variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 31 $ 31 $ 28 average interest rate 2.64 % 2.64 % total investment securities $ 1,001 $ 35 $ 25 $ $ $ 31 $ 1,092 $ 1,090 average interest rate 2.57 % 5.38 % 4.33 % 2.64 % 2.71 % long-term debt fixed rate $ 331 $ 141 $ 5 $ 630 $ $ 600 $ 1,707 $ 1,743 average interest rate 2.43 % 6.76 % 5.75 % 6.35 % 6.80 % 5.78 % variable rate $ 30 $ 300 $ 330 $ 323 average interest rate 3.41 % 3.64 % 3.62 % foreign currency exchange risk. we recognize all of our derivative financial instruments, principally foreign currency forward contracts, on the balance sheet as either assets or liabilities and these derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value. we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments, certain foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, we did not enter into any hedges of net investments in foreign operations. we transact business in various foreign countries and our primary foreign currency cash flows are in countries where we have a manufacturing presence. we have established a foreign currency hedging program to protect against the change in value of foreign currency cash flows resulting from operating and capital expenditures over the next year. we hedge portions of our forecasted expenditures denominated in foreign currencies with foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges. when the u.s. dollar weakens significantly against the foreign currencies, the increase in value of the future foreign currency expenditure is offset by gains in the value of the foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges. conversely, as the u.s. dollar strengthens, the decrease in value of the future foreign currency cash flows is offset by losses in the value of the foreign currency forward contracts. these foreign currency forward contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities of up to twelve months. 69 table of contents for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, we initially record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in other comprehensive income, and the ineffective portion is reported in earnings. amounts in other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (expense) on the statement of operations. we did not have any net gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense) for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. nor did we discontinue any cash flow hedges for a probable forecasted transaction that would not occur in fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006. as of june 27, 2008, our notional fair values of foreign currency forward contracts totaled $729 million. we do not believe that these derivatives present significant credit risks, because the counterparties to the derivatives consist of highly rated financial institutions, we manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institutions. the table below provides information as of june 27, 2008, about our derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward contracts: british pound $ 25 1.94 $ euro 27 1.55 singapore dollar 115 1.36 thai baht 510 32.18 (23 ) chinese yuan 20 6.75 malaysian ringgit 2 3.26 japanese yen 15 103.45 (1 ) czech koruna 15 15.94 total $ 729 $ (24 ) (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. 70 table of contentsrisk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 1 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives ( ssd ) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives ( sshd ) and storage subsystems. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand-based flash memory. in addition to hdds and ssds, sshds combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an ssd cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, network-attached storage ( nas ), digital video recorders ( dvrs ) and gaming consoles. our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer ( oem ) storage systems and scale-out storage servers. industry overview data storage industry the data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data and computing platforms. markets the principal markets served by the data storage industry are: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as dedicated storage area networks and hyperscale cloud storage environments. enterprise data centers run solutions which are designed for mission critical performance and nearline high capacity applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise workloads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks. our storage solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased requirements for storage driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital content, we expect the increased exabyte demand will require further build-out of data centers by cloud service providers and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. enterprise serial attached scsi ( sas ) ssds are designed to deliver superior performance, reliability and enterprise features to meet the demands of i/o-intensive applications, with potential for substantial power savings. non-volatile memory express ( nvme ) ssds and add-in cards are designed to optimize enterprise applications with a persistent, high-performance, high-capacity memory design. they also leverage flash and software to accelerate any server virtualized deployment and moves any big data to the realm of real time. client compute. we define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications ranging from traditional laptops, tablets and convertible systems. as the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent and accessible, some client compute applications rely less on built-in storage, which is supplemented by cloud computing solutions and branded external hard drives. client non-compute. we define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage. disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as surveillance systems, nas and dvrs that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external storage is designed for purposes such as portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer current desktop, notebook, tablet or dvr devices. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. 2 table of contents cloud systems and solutions. we define cloud systems and solutions as applications that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems. systems can contain hdds and ssds and can offer file management systems, software, and even compute power. participants in the data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits ( asics ). hardware storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies, such as oems, that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications and cloud service providers ( csp ) that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems that are also included in this category. storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of data. hyperscale data centers. increasingly, large hyperscale data center companies are designing their own storage subsystems and having those built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market and driving innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of the large storage system vendors. demand for data storage the continued advancement of the cloud, the proliferation of a variety of mobile devices globally, development of the internet of things ( iot ), increasingly pervasive use of video surveillance, evolution of consumer electronic devices, and enterprise use of big data analytics are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to the growth of digital content include: creation, sharing, and consumption of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video, and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; creation, aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as facebook &reg; , instagram &reg; , itunes &reg; , netflix &reg; , google &reg; and youtube &reg; ; new surveillance systems which feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; creation and collection of data through the evolution of the iot ecosystem, big data analytics and new technology trends such as self-driving cars and drones; build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by cloud service providers and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; and protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, the nature and volume of content being created requires greater storage, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity storage devices in order to store, manage, distribute, analyze and backup such content. we expect this to support the growth in demand for data storage solutions in developed and emerging economies well into the future. the amount of data created as well as where and how data is stored continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices, the growth of cloud computing, and the evolving iot. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for data storage solutions going forward. demand trends for disk drives we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner in which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. 3 table of contents we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high-capacity storage solutions, and the data intensive client non-compute markets will continue to be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices although the advance of solid state technology in the above markets is expected to increase as well. furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that both consume media-rich digital content streamed from the cloud and create rich digital content that is stored in the cloud, increases the demand for high capacity hard disk drives in enterprise nearline applications. we also believe that as hard disk drive capacities continue to increase, unit demand does not reflect the increase in exabytes demand. in recent years, this trend has resulted in demand for fewer units, but with higher average capacity per drive. industry supply balance from time to time the hdd industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the disk drive industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of data storage applications and industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes ( gb ) or terabytes ( tb ), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ( rpm ), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second ( iops ), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is measured by storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing we design and produce our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. 4 table of contents we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing cost by: employing manufacturing automation; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capabilities. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies ( pcbas ) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture ( sata ); small computer system interface ( scsi ); sas; or fibre channel ( fc ) to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their proprietary design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly ( e-block ) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and in the united states. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. 5 table of contents suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for the enterprise, data center, client compute and client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features, and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. we list our main current product offerings below. enterprise storage enterprise performance hdds. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 2.4tb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 900gb. enterprise capacity and archive hdds. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors and in storage capacities of up to 12tb that mainly rotate at a speed of 7,200 rpm. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency, integrated security, and sata and sas interfaces. our archive hdds provide up to 8tb of low-cost storage designed specifically for active archive storage environments in cloud data centers where very low cost and power are paramount. enterprise ssds. our sas ssd are available in capacities up to 3.8tb and feature 12gb per second interface to deliver the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. we also offer a wide range of nvme and sata interface ssds and add-in cards in our nytro family with capacities up to 7.7tb. client compute desktop hdds and sshds. our 3.5-inch desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 10tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. mobile hdds and sshds. our family of 2.5-inch laptop drives ship in a variety of capacities (up to 5tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops, convertible systems and external storage, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. client non-compute surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple hard drive ( hd ) streams and capacities up to 10tb. nas hdds. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built error recovery controls, power settings, and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 10tb. video hdds. our video hdds are used in video applications like dvr and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. gaming hdds. gaming hdds are specifically optimized for console gaming usage. these products are designed to enhance gaming experience during game-load and game-play and are available in capacities up to 2tb. branded solutions. our external backup storage solutions are shipped under the backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the maxtor and lacie brand names. these product lines are available in capacities up to 120tb. 6 table of contents customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. the following table summarizes our hdd revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended june 30, 2017 july 1, 2016 july 3, 2015 revenues by channel (%) oem 67 % 69 % 71 % distributors 18 % 17 % 18 % retail 15 % 14 % 11 % revenues by geography (%) (1) americas 31 % 29 % 27 % emea 17 % 17 % 16 % asia pacific 52 % 54 % 57 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. oem customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, dell inc. accounted for approximately 10%, 12% and 14% of consolidated revenue, respectively. in fiscal year 2015, hewlett-packard company accounted for approximately 12% of consolidated revenue. in fiscal year 2016, hp inc., formerly known as hewlett-packard company, completed its separation with hewlett packard enterprise company, and each company accounted for less than 10% of our consolidated revenue in both fiscal year 2016 and 2017. see item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our major customers. competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications. we are also a supplier of enterprise ssds, nvme add-in cards, cloud storage solutions and storage subsystems through our acquisitions. the markets that we participate in are highly competitive. disk drive manufacturers compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the data storage industry that provide ssds and nvme add-in technology. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to many of these factors in the markets that we currently address. 7 table of contents principal disk drive competitors. there are three companies in the data storage industry that manufacture disk drives: seagate, selling the seagate, lacie and maxtor brands; western digital corporation, operating the western digital, hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries and sandisk; and toshiba corporation other competition. we are seeing direct competition from ssd that is adversely impacting demand for hdd in some markets including notebook and enterprise mission critical. we expect that this trend will continue although we believe both product types will be required in the market to satisfy the growing demand for data storage. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ( like-for-like products ). price declines for like-for-like products ( price erosion ) tend to be more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and product cost reductions. we believe the hdd industry experienced modest price erosion in fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. we believe fiscal year 2015 reflected seasonality consistent with historical patterns. in fiscal year 2016, beyond traditional seasonality, variability of sales was a reflection of more cyclical demand from csps based on the timing of large systems installations and the shift of the underlying technology. we believe fiscal year 2017 reflected seasonality consistent with historical patterns. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,232 million, $1,237 million and $1,353 million, respectively, which represented 11%, 11% and 10% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. 8 table of contents patents and licenses as of june 30, 2017, we had approximately 5,600 u.s. patents and 1,300 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,100 u.s. and 900 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. we have patent licenses with a number of companies. additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. the data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation arising from time to time relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. because of rapid technological development in the data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse effect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies. the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the superfund law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives and server storage products, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ( svhcs ) in products. 9 table of contents employees at june 30, 2017, we employed approximately 41,000 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 33,000 were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13. business segment and geographic information. corporate information seagate technology public limited company, is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the 1934 exchange act ), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 from 10:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. est. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 or (202) 551-6551. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. website access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investors section of our website, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our website. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers on july 25, 2017 the company board of directors (the board of directors ) appointed william d. mosley to serve as chief executive officer of the company, effective october 1, 2017. the board of directors also appointed mr. mosley to serve as a director of the company, effective july 25, 2017. mr. mosley will serve as a director until the company next annual general meeting of shareholders when he is expected to stand for election by a vote of the company shareholders. on july 25, 2017, the company also announced that stephen j. luczo will step down from his position as chief executive officer, effective october 1, 2017. mr. luczo will remain with the company in the role of executive chairman effective october 1, 2017 and will continue to serve as chairman of the board of directors. the following sets forth the name, age and positions of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 4, 2017. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. 10 table of contents name age positions stephen j. luczo 60 chairman and chief executive officer william d. mosley 50 president and chief operating officer philip g. brace (a) 46 president, cloud systems and silicon group david h. morton jr. 45 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer james j. murphy 58 executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing katherine e. schuelke 54 senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary (a) mr. brace is leaving the company and will remain for an interim transition period until october 2, 2017. stephen j. luczo. mr. luczo, 60, has served as our ceo since january 2009 and as chairman of the board of directors since 2002. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of seagate technology (seagate technology plc predecessor) and, in july 1998, he was promoted to ceo at which time he joined the board of directors as a director of seagate technology. mr. luczo resigned as ceo effective as of july 2004, but remained as chairman of the board of directors. he served as non-employee chairman from october 2006 to january 2009. from october 2006 until he rejoined us in january 2009, mr. luczo was a private investor. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo served on the board of directors of microsoft corporation from may 2012 to march 2014. william d. mosley. mr. mosley, 50, has served as our president, chief operating officer since june 2016 and as a member of the board since july 25, 2017. he was previously our president, operations and technology from october 2013 to june 2016 and our executive vice president, operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from february 2009 through march 2011; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. mr. mosley joined seagate in 1996 as a senior engineer and served in other positions of increasing responsibility until his promotion to vice president in 2002. philip g. brace. mr. brace, 46, has served as our president, cloud systems and silicon group since july 2015. on june 2, 2017, we announced that mr. brace will leave the company. mr. brace will remain with us for an interim period, ending on october 2, 2017, in order to assist with the transition of his responsibilities. mr. brace joined seagate in september 2014 as executive vice president and chief technology officer of silicon solutions, and was promoted to interim president of cloud systems and silicon group on april 30, 2015. he was previously employed by lsi corporation ( lsi ) from august 2005 through september 2014. at lsi, he was the executive vice president of the storage solutions group from july 2012 to september 2014 and senior vice president and general manager from january 2009 to july 2012. david h. morton jr. mr. morton, 45, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2015 and our principal accounting officer since 2014. he was previously our senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from april 2014 to october 2015 and our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from october 2009 to april 2014; vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007; executive director of consumer electronics finance from october 2005 to october 2006; and executive director of corporate fp&amp;a from june 2004 to october 2005. james j. murphy, 58, has served as our executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing since january 2017. from 2003 to 2016, mr. murphy was employed by western digital corporation where he served in a variety of executive leadership roles including president of western digital corporation, executive vice president of worldwide sales &amp; sales operations, and vice president of asia pacific sales. mr. murphy began his career with ibm in 1984 in the sales organization, where he held a number of sales roles with increasing responsibilities over a seven-year period. katherine e. schuelke, 54, has served as our senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary since june 2017. she was previously employed by altera corporation ( altera ) from march 1996 through january 2016. at altera, ms. schuelke was the senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2011 through 2016 and vice president, general counsel, and secretary from 2001 to 2011. at altera, she held other positions of increasing responsibility from 1996 through 2001. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments which may materially adversely affect our financial results and the results of our operations. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our quarterly results are subject to substantial fluctuations and can be difficult to predict. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter production. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. we attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. our customers estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our major customers decide to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, this is likely to result in reduced total revenues for that quarter. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in increased working capital requirements, or under-produce finished goods, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer requirements and maintain our market share. additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. our uneven sales cycle makes inventory management challenging and future financial results less predictable. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as solid state drives ( ssds ) in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy may increase our capital expenditures; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related margins of the various products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. in addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. 12 table of contents market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. failure to accurately anticipate customers need and accurately identify the shift in technological changes could materially adversely affect our long-term financial results. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. we may face technological, operational and financial challenges in developing new products. in addition, our investments directed toward new product development may not yield the anticipated benefits. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; produce these products in sufficient volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current generation products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. our industries are highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product introductions, substantial price erosion and lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular markets ahead of our similar, competing products. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when supply exceeds demand for a particular product. market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. when our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. 13 table of contents our principal sources of competition include: disk drive manufacturers, such as western digital corporation and toshiba; companies providing storage subsystems and components to oems; electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise data storage marketplace; and collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of ems, contract electronic manufacturing ( cem ) or emerging technology companies. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications and now it also includes ssds for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. certain customers for both notebook and enterprise compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operation. the markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. this could lower the barriers to entry to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large ems and cem companies. commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. if our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers, we will have difficulty competing against the larger ems and cem companies. if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. we may be unable to effectively plan and make strategic changes in our business which may materially adversely affect our financial and business results. additionally, we may not achieve the intended benefits of our strategic change efforts. we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities, to successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. our growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. additionally, the current trend of consolidation in the data storage industry may materially adversely affect our business and financial results and our future growth prospects. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we make or, if we do, how long it will take to achieve such benefits. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of in-process research and development. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers demand new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. we may fail to successfully anticipate technological shifts, business opportunities and market demand. additionally, the barriers to entry in developing nand flash memory products and ssds may materially adversely affect our future growth prospects. we may fail to develop new products, identify business strategies and introduce competitive product offerings to meet those technological shifts which may materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and may impact our future financial results. servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities and reduce our options for capital allocation. for example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. 15 table of contents in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. in addition, our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that: our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. while sales to client non-compute and cloud systems and solutions markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the client compute market remain an important part of our business. the client compute market, however, has been, and we expect it to continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices and that perform many of the same capabilities as computers, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. we believe that the deterioration of the client compute market has accelerated recently, and that this accelerated deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. additionally, if demand in the client compute market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the client compute market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. the enterprise storage market has been adversely affected by the growth of the utilization of nand flash in mission critical applications. this deterioration of the enterprise storage market could cause our operating results to suffer. the potential migration of the enterprise storage market to nand flash memory products and an acceleration of the pace of migration may materially adversely affect our financial results. causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of our products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual which may materially adversely affect our financial results. 16 table of contents increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. as a result, our customers storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and silicon group. we have made and are continuing to make investments to develop our cloud systems and silicon group. our cloud systems and silicon group is subject to the following risks: the cloud systems and solutions market may develop more slowly than we expect; we may be unable to accurately estimate and predict data center capacity and requirements; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; our cloud systems and silicon group generally has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and growth in this business is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses; and the current uncertainty surrounding net neutrality may cause the data center and cloud business to grow at a slower rate than expected. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our cloud computing business as anticipated. in addition, our growth in this sector may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. changes in the macroeconomic environment have negatively impacted, and may continue to, negatively impact our results of operations. due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our customers may postpone spending in response to volatility in credit and equity markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. additionally, enterprise spending continues to remain cautious in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the labor market, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. macroeconomic developments like the ongoing withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand; delays or problems in our introduction of new, more cost-effective products, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; 17 table of contents increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions. our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. in addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. we invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. these factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may adversely impact our results of operations. 18 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our major customers. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. while sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. we believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling increased consumer demand for storage. this has led to the expansion of our branded solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. this could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. our international sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital, health-related risks, and access to personnel. we have significant sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. additionally, the manufacturing of some of our products is concentrated in certain geographical locations. the production of certain drive subassemblies are limited to thailand and the production of media is limited to singapore. disruptions in the economic, environmental, political, legal or regulatory landscape in these countries may have a material adverse impact on our manufacturing operations. 19 table of contents our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, united kingdom and the european union have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominately in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, and the impact of international holidays like the chinese new year, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, antitrust matters including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, antitrust, price controls and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. 20 table of contents increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. the u.s. government could impose tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, floods, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, ransomware, system security breaches or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 21 table of contents we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s., u.k., european union and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, the company may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties, and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and unpredictable geo-political climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and our financial results. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 22 table of contents consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. additionally, the regulatory and compliance framework for conflict minerals may undergo changes which may further increase the cost of compliance. our stakeholders and customers may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. 23 table of contents the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. 24 table of contents failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our result of operations may suffer. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our ip rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our ip rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other ip rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and others will not gain access to our trade secrets. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; 26 table of contents the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class action claims against us. significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. the price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, and the impact of international holidays like the chinese new year, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, antitrust matters including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, antitrust, price controls and international trade. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. 20 table of contents increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. the u.s. government could impose tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, floods, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, ransomware, system security breaches or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. in addition, our outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 21 table of contents we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s., u.k., european union and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, the company may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties, and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and unpredictable geo-political climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and our financial results. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the people republic of china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 22 table of contents consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under these contracts. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. additionally, the regulatory and compliance framework for conflict minerals may undergo changes which may further increase the cost of compliance. our stakeholders and customers may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. 23 table of contents the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. 24 table of contents failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our result of operations may suffer. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. while as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 table of contents we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. as of june 30, 2017, the company had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. the company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of june 30, 2017. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 30, 2017. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value at june 30, 2017 assets cash equivalents: fixed rate $ 1,178 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,178 $ 1,178 average interest rate 1.21 % 1.21 % total fixed income $ 1,178 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,178 $ 1,178 debt fixed rate $ $ 710 $ $ $ 750 $ 3,613 $ 5,073 $ 5,159 average interest rate 3.75 % 4.25 % 4.93 % 4.66 % foreign currency exchange risk. from time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. at this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the changes as a result of the british vote to exit the european union. we hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. these foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, derivatives and hedging . the company has no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of june 30, 2017. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in cost of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the fiscal years 2017 and 2016. 48 table of contents other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its non-qualified deferred compensation plan the seagate deferred compensation plan (the sdcp ). in fiscal year 2014, the company entered into a total return swap ( trs ) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. the company pays a floating rate, based on libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. seerisk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date on which they were made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or circumstances after the date they were made. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 2 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives ( ssds ), solid state hybrid drives ( sshds ) and storage subsystems. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand flash memory. in addition to hdds and ssds, sshds combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller ssd acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our hdd products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute/client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute/client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders ( dvrs ), network-attached storage ( nas ) and gaming consoles. our ssd products mainly include serial attached scsi ( sas ) and non-volatile memory express ( nvme ) ssds. our cloud systems and solutions portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer ( oem ) storage systems and scale-out storage servers. industry overview data storage industry the data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data, computing platforms and consumer markets. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. markets the principal markets served by us include: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as dedicated storage area networks and hyperscale cloud storage environments. enterprise and cloud data centers run solutions which are designed for mission critical, nearline and enterprise serial attached scsi ssds applications. mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise workloads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks. our storage solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. with the increased requirements for storage capacity and performance driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital content, we expect the increased exabyte demand will require further build-out of data centers by cloud service providers ( csps ) and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. enterprise sas ssds are designed to deliver superior performance, reliability and enterprise features to meet the demands of i/o-intensive applications, with potential for substantial power savings. nvme ssds and add-in cards are designed to optimize enterprise applications with a persistent, high-performance, high-capacity memory design. they also leverage flash and software to accelerate any server virtualized deployment and move any big data to the realm of real time. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 3 table of contents edge compute/client compute. we define edge compute/client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications ranging from traditional laptops to convertible systems. as storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prevalent, accessible and affordable, some edge compute/client compute applications rely less on built-in storage, and instead have transitioned to cloud storage and computing solutions along with branded external hard drives. edge non-compute/client non-compute. we define edge non-compute/client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage. disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as surveillance systems, dvrs, nas and gaming consoles that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. disk drives for external storage are designed for purposes such as portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer current desktop, notebook, tablet or mobile phone devices. cloud systems and solutions. we define cloud systems and solutions as applications that provide solutions to businesses for the purpose of modular systems and scale-out storage solutions. systems can contain hdds and ssds and may offer file management systems, software and compute power. participants in the data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media and application specific integrated circuits ( asics ). storage solutions manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which integrate flash memory into storage products such as ssds. system integrators. companies, such as oems, that bundle and package storage solutions, distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications and csps that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems. hyperscale data centers. large hyperscale data center companies which are increasingly designing their own storage subsystems and having them built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market and driving innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of large storage system vendors. storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of data. demand for data storage the international data corporation ( idc ) forecasted in its 2017 data age 2025 study that the global datasphere will grow to 163 zettabytes by 2025. according to idc, we are fast approaching a new era of the data age, which we expect will have a positive impact on storage demand. we believe that the continued advancement of the cloud, the further development of edge computing, the global proliferation of mobile devices, the evolution of the internet of things ( iot ), the increasing use of video surveillance, the evolution of consumer electronic devices, and the enterprise use of big data analytics are driving the growth of digital content. factors contributing to the growth of digital content include: creation, sharing, and consumption of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition videos, and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; creation, aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as facebook &reg; , instagram &reg; , itunes &reg; , netflix &reg; , google &reg; and youtube &reg; ; increasing use of video surveillance and the emergence of new surveillance systems which feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 4 table of contents creation and collection of data through the development and evolution of the iot ecosystem, big data analytics (including enterprise use of big data analytics) and new technology trends such as self-driving cars and drones; continued advancement of the cloud, including the build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by csps and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; and protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, we anticipate that the nature and volume of content being created will require greater storage, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity storage devices in order to store, manage, distribute, analyze and backup such content. we expect this to support the growth in demand for data storage solutions in developed and emerging economies. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for data storage solutions going forward. demand trends we believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, protect, backup and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the storage solutions will evolve as well. we expect increased data creation will lead to the expansion of the need for storage in the form of both hdds and ssds. while the advance of solid state technology in many end markets is expected to increase, we believe that in the foreseeable future, cloud, traditional enterprise, client and consumer markets that require high-capacity storage solutions will be best served by hard disk drives due to their ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. we also believe that as hard disk drive capacities continue to increase, a focus exclusively on unit demand does not reflect the increase in demand for exabytes. this has resulted in demand for fewer units, but with higher average capacity per drive. industry supply balance from time to time, the storage industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the storage industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business disk drive technology the design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. this design and manufacturing approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of data storage applications and industries. disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes ( gb ) or terabytes ( tb ), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ( rpm ), which has an effect on speed of access to data; seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 5 table of contents interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second ( iops ), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is measured by storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. manufacturing we design and produce our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing costs by: employing manufacturing automation; utilizing machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capabilities. a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs when capacity utilization is not optimized. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as read/write heads and recording media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of read/write heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 6 table of contents processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges related to magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. data is written to or read from the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic substrates, usually an aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies ( pcbas ) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture ( sata ); small computer system interface ( scsi ); sas; or fiber channel to communicate to the host systems. we outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the pcbas used in our disk drives. we do not manufacture any asics, but we participate in their design. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly ( e-block ) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and machine learning prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and machine learning operations occur primarily at our facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and the united states. in addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in various countries worldwide. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. however, our business has been adversely affected by our suppliers capacity constraints in the past and this could occur again. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in price and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of alternative shipment methods to help offset any increase in freight costs, and will continually review various forms of shipments and routes in order to minimize the exposure to higher freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for enterprise, data center, edge compute/client compute and edge non-compute/client non-compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 7 table of contents and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. currently, our product offerings include: enterprise storage enterprise performance hdds. our 10,000 and 15,000 rpm enterprise performance disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. performance 10,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 300gb to 2.4tb, and our 15,000 rpm hdds ship in storage capacities ranging from 146gb to 900gb. enterprise capacity and archive hdds. our enterprise capacity disk drives ship in 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors and in storage capacities of up to 14tb that mainly rotate at a speed of 7,200 rpm. these products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency, integrated security, and sata and sas interfaces. our archive hdds provide up to 8tb of low-cost storage designed specifically for active archive storage environments in cloud data centers where very low cost and power are paramount. enterprise ssds. our sas ssds are available in capacities up to 7.68tb and feature a 12gb per second interface to deliver the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. we also offer a wide range of nvme and sata interface ssds and add-in cards with capacities up to 7.6tb. edge compute/client compute desktop hdds and sshds. our 3.5-inch desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 12tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. mobile hdds and sshds. our family of 2.5-inch laptop drives ship in a variety of capacities (up to 5tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops, convertible systems and external storage, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. edge non-compute/client non-compute surveillance hdds. our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple streams and capacities up to 10tb. video hdds. our video hdds are used in video applications like dvrs and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. nas hdds. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built health management, error recovery controls, power settings and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 12tb. gaming hdds. gaming hdds are specifically optimized for console gaming usage. these products are designed to enhance gaming experience during game-load and game-play and are available in capacities up to 8tb. consumer solutions. our external storage solutions are shipped under the seagate backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the lacie and maxtor brand names. these product lines are available in capacities up to 120tb. we strive to deliver the best customer experience, by leveraging our core technologies, offering services such as seagate recovery services (data recovery) and partnering with leading brands such as xbox &reg; , adobe &reg; and dji . customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 8 table of contents the following table summarizes our hdd revenue by channel and by geography: fiscal years ended june 29, 2018 june 30, 2017 july 1, 2016 revenues by channel (%) oem 69 % 67 % 69 % distributors 17 % 18 % 17 % retail 14 % 15 % 14 % revenues by geography (%) (1) americas 27 % 31 % 29 % emea 17 % 17 % 17 % asia pacific 56 % 52 % 54 % (1) revenue is attributed to countries based on the ship to location. oem customers, including cloud service providers, typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited rights of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. in fiscal year 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenue. in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, dell inc. accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of consolidated revenue, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors-risks related to our business-we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our key customers. competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, edge compute/client compute and edge non-compute/client non-compute applications and with other companies in the data storage industry that provide ssds and nvme add-in technology. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to many of these factors in the markets that we currently address. principal competitors. we compete with manufacturers of storage solutions and the principal manufactures in the data storage solution industry include: seagate, selling the seagate, lacie and maxtor brands; micron technology, inc.; seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 9 table of contents samsung electronics; sk hynix, inc.; toshiba corporation; and western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries and sandisk. price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ( like-for-like products ). price declines for like-for-like products ( price erosion ) tend to be more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and product cost reductions. we believe the hdd industry experienced modest price erosion in fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. beyond traditional seasonality, variability of sales can be related to it spending or a reflection of more cyclical demand from csps based on the timing of procurement, deployment and market supply and demand balance of other components such as nand and dram. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology focused towards new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies for our product development teams as well as to allow us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. during fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,026 million, $1,232 million and $1,237 million, respectively, which represented 9%, 11% and 11% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 10 table of contents patents and licenses as of june 29, 2018, we had approximately 6,000 u.s. patents and 1,400 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,000 u.s. and 600 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. the data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation arising from time to time relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims without a material adverse effect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies. the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog for our business is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the superfund law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites are difficult to predict, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives and server storage products, seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 11 table of contents put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ( svhcs ) in products. employees at june 29, 2018, we employed approximately 43,000 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 36,000 were located in our asian operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 13. business segment and geographic information. corporate information seagate technology public limited company is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the 1934 exchange act ), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the public may read and copy any of our filings at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 from 10:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. est. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 or (202) 551-6551. because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. website access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investors section of our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our website. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 3, 2018. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions william d. mosley 51 director and chief executive officer stephen j. luczo 61 executive chairman and chairman of the board david h. morton jr. 46 executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer james j. murphy 59 executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing jeffrey d. nygaard 54 executive vice president, global operations katherine e. schuelke 55 senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 12 table of contents william d. mosley, 51, has served as our ceo since october 2017 and as a member of the board since july 25, 2017. he was previously our president and chief operating officer from june 2016 to september 2017. he also served as our president, operations and technology from october 2013 to june 2016 and our executive vice president, operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to these positions, dr. mosley served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from february 2009 through march 2011; senior vice president, global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president, research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. dr. mosley joined seagate in 1996 as a senior engineer with a phd in solid state physics. from 1996 to 2002, he served in varying roles of increasing responsibility until his promotion to vice president. stephen j. luczo, 61, has served as our executive chairman since october 2017 and chairman of the board of directors since 2002. prior to his current role, he served two tenures as our ceo from january 2009 to october 2017 and july 1998 to july 2004. mr. luczo joined seagate in october 1993 as senior vice president of corporate development. in september 1997, he was promoted to president and chief operating officer of seagate technology (seagate technology plc predecessor). upon his promotion to ceo in july 1998, he joined the board of directors as a director of seagate technology. after resigning as ceo in july 2004, mr. luczo continued to serve as chairman of the board of directors. prior to joining seagate in 1993, mr. luczo was senior managing director of the global technology group of bear, stearns &amp; co. inc., an investment banking firm, from february 1992 to october 1993. mr. luczo served on the board of directors of microsoft corporation from may 2012 to march 2014. david h. morton jr., 46, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2015 and our principal accounting officer since 2009. he was previously our senior vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from april 2014 to october 2015 and our vice president, finance, treasurer and principal accounting officer from october 2009 to april 2014; vice president of finance, sales and marketing from march 2009 to october 2009; vice president of sales operations from july 2007 to march 2009; and vice president of finance, storage markets from october 2006 to july 2007. from 1995 to 2007, he served in varying roles of increasing responsibility until his promotion to vice president. james j. murphy, 59, has served as our executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing since january 2017. from 2003 to 2016, mr. murphy was employed by western digital corporation where he served in a variety of executive leadership roles including president of western digital corporation, executive vice president of worldwide sales &amp; sales operations, and vice president of asia pacific sales. mr. murphy began his career with ibm in 1984 in the sales organization, where he held a number of sales roles with increasing responsibilities over a seven-year period. jeffrey d. nygaard, 54, has served as our executive vice president, global operations, since october 2017. mr. nygaard also served as our senior vice president, global operations and supply chain from march 2017 to october 2017; senior vice president, recording head operations from may 2013 to february 2017; vice president slider, hga, hsa operations from 2011 to april 2013; vice president and country manager, thailand and penang operations from 2009 to 2011; vice president and country manager, thailand operations and asia drive engineering from 2006 to 2009; and vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006. from 1994 to 2006, mr. nygaard served in varying roles of increasing responsibilities in engineering at seagate until his promotion to vice president. mr. nygaard began his career with raytheon and ibm where he held positions as a design engineer and senior engineer. katherine e. schuelke, 55, has served as our senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary since june 2017. she was previously employed by altera corporation ( altera ) from march 1996 through january 2016. at altera, ms. schuelke was the senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2011 through 2016 and vice president, general counsel, and secretary from 2001 to 2011. at altera, she held other positions of increasing responsibility from 1996 through 2001. ms. schuelke began her career at an international law firm. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors our industry is highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change, and that are significantly affected by new product introductions and technological advancements. our competitors also may aggressively lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. if these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices may be diminished to the extent competitors introduce products before we introduce similar, competing products. we may also lose market share if we are unable to ramp volume production of new products as quickly as our competitors ramp production of similar competing products. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. our principal sources of competition include: disk drive and solid state drive ( ssd ) manufacturers, such as micron technology, inc., samsung electronics, sk hynix, inc., toshiba corporation and western digital corporation; companies providing storage subsystems and components to oems; electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise data storage marketplace; and collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of ems, contract electronic manufacturing ( cem ) or emerging technology companies. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications and now it also includes ssds for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. some customers for both enterprise and edge compute applications are adopting ssds as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations. the markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change, which is driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation. if this occurs, our affected products may be considered commodities. this could lower the barriers for entry to our market away from our specialized research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large ems and cem companies. commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. if our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers or if our component manufacturers transfer their business to our competitors, we will have difficulty competing against the larger ems and cem companies which could reduce our profit margin or result in a loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. we may be unable to effectively plan and make strategic changes in our business which may materially adversely affect our financial and business results. additionally, even if we are able to make desired strategic changes, we may not achieve the intended benefits of our efforts. if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter or if the market for our products changes, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments, which may materially adversely affect our financial results and results of operations. our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at the end of that quarter. our quarterly results are subject to substantial fluctuations and can be difficult to predict. our seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 14 table of contents manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for production in that quarter and future quarters. since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. we attempt to project future orders based, in part, on estimates from our key customers. our customers estimated requirements are not always accurate and, therefore, we cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our key customers decides to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, our revenues for that quarter may be significantly reduced and fall below our expectations. the difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to overproduce or underproduce finished goods. if we do not produce enough finished goods to meet customer requirements, we may be unable to maintain our market share. additionally, the risk of obsolescence or lower of cost and net realizable value inventory write-offs could increase if we were to carry excess inventory levels for extended periods or due to volatility in the pricing environment. our uneven sales cycle makes inventory management challenging and future financial results less predictable. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. other factors that may adversely affect our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include: the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives or ssds; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions, such as ssds, in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications; our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products, particularly new disk drive products, in increasing volumes, on a cost-effective basis, and with acceptable quality; uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our key customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total sales; our product mix and the related gross margins of our products; accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand, or the united states; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers; and operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. in addition, the demand for edge non-compute/client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for edge compute/client compute products. in some cases, our products manufactured for edge non-compute/client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized. this potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies, such as flash memory, meeting the customers cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new edge non-compute/client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 15 table of contents our future results of operations. additionally, we are dependent on our long-term investment to manufacture adequate products. our investment decisions in adding a new assembly and test capacity require significant planning and lead-time, and a failure to accurately forecast demand for our products could cause us to over-invest or under-invest, which would lead to excess capacity, under-utilization charges, impairments or loss of sales and revenue opportunities. market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. our failure to accurately anticipate customers needs and accurately identify the shift in technological changes could materially adversely affect our long-term financial results. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new disk drive product offerings. we may face technological, operational and financial challenges in developing new products. in addition, our investments in new product development may not yield the anticipated benefits. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in adequate volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. in addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our oem customers. in order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the potential effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. these risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices and declining gross margins on our current generation products. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases to evaluate new products or if they want to buy a new product that has been announced but not yet released. if this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. as a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. if we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. further, due to market competition, volatility, and rapid technology and price changes, we may be unable to accurately forecast demand resulting in insufficient or excess production or purchase of products or components inventory, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investment opportunities to successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. our long-term growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 16 table of contents attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. additionally, a trend of consolidation in the data storage industry could materially adversely affect our business and financial results and our future growth prospects. accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, the terms on which we are able to consummate a transaction may not be commercially reasonable for us to pursue. we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. in addition, our cash reserves could diminish significantly as a result of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments we pursue. even if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies, these transactions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. it is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. in addition, the integration of any acquired companies would require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. growth by strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve the desired objectives. there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we make or, if we do, how long it will take to achieve such benefits. furthermore, the expansion of our business involves the risk that we may not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or investments that would increase our debt service obligations, and that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and investments. each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. issuing shares in connection with such transactions would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage of the outstanding ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline and impact our existing dividend policy or share repurchase program resulting in diminishing shareholders value. if we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected. our customers demand new generations of storage products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, enhanced security, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. such product development requires significant investments in research and development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. in addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products experience increases in failures rates, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products, our factory utilization may decrease and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and our service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive. additionally, we may be unable to produce new products that have higher capacities and more advanced technologies in the volumes and timeframes that are required to meet customer demand. we announced our future transition to key areal density recording technologies that will use heated-assisted magnetic reading ( hamr ) technology to increase hdd seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 17 table of contents capacities. if our transitions to more advanced technologies, including the transition to hdds utilizing hamr technology, require development and production cycles that are longer than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new hdd technologies successfully, we may lose sales and market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. we may fail to successfully anticipate technological shifts, business opportunities and market demand. we also may be subject to risks associated with entry into the nand flash memory market. if we are unable to successfully to penetrate the nand flash memory market, our future growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. we may fail to develop new products, identify business strategies and introduce competitive product offerings to meet those technological shifts which may materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and may impact our future financial results. servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. we are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities and reduce our options for capital allocation. our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness. further, in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures or incur additional debt to fund our operations, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. in addition, our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. if we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products. our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. historically, the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 18 table of contents or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. while sales to edge non-compute/client non-compute and cloud systems and solutions markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the edge compute/client compute market remain an important part of our business. the edge compute/client compute market, however, has been, and we expect it to continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices that perform many of the same capabilities as computers, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. we believe that the deterioration of the edge compute/client compute market has accelerated recently, and that this accelerated deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. additionally, if demand in the edge compute/client compute market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the edge compute/client compute market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. the enterprise storage market for disk drives has been adversely affected by the growth of the utilization of nand flash memory in mission critical applications. this deterioration of the enterprise storage disk drive market could cause our operating results to suffer. an acceleration of the pace of migration of the enterprise storage market to nand flash memory products may materially adversely affect our financial results. historically, causes of declines in demand for our products have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or shifts in consumer preferences and behavior, such as the shift to mobile devices. we believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual, which may materially adversely affect our financial results. increases in the areal density of our disk drives may outpace our customers demand for storage capacity. the rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications, such as edge compute/client compute. as a result, our customers storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity disk drives. these factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and solutions revenues. we have made and continue to make investments to grow our cloud systems and solutions revenues. our ability to grow cloud systems and solutions revenues is subject to the following risks: our position in the cloud systems and solutions revenues may grow more slowly than we expect; we may be unable to accurately estimate and predict data center capacity and requirements; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; our cloud systems revenues generally have a longer sales cycle, and growth is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses; and we may not be able to maintain our historical overall growth margins as we grow our cloud systems and solutions revenues. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our revenues as anticipated. in addition, our growth in these markets may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 19 table of contents changes in the macroeconomic environment may in the future negatively impact, our results of operations. changes in macroeconomic conditions may affect consumer and enterprise spending, and as a result, our customers may postpone spending in response to volatility in credit and equity markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. additionally, enterprise spending continues to remain cautious in many regions around the world. other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the labor market, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. macroeconomic developments such as the pending withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union, slowing economies in parts of asia and south america or increased tariffs could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline. our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including: current uncertainty in global economic and political conditions which may pose a risk to the overall economy and adversely affect our customers purchasing behavior; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors which may shift demand away from our products toward our competitors; delays or problems in our introduction of new, more cost-effective products, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply and demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; changes in tax laws, regulatory requirements, including export regulations or tariffs, or accounting standards; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 20 table of contents as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in our market value. we experience seasonal declines in the sales of our products during the second half of our fiscal year which may adversely affect our results of operations. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the edge compute/client compute and edge non-compute/client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in our results derived from our customers increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise storage market, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the edge non-compute/client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions, which impairs our ability to accurately predict our financial and operating results in any periods and may adversely affect our ability to forecast the need for investments and expenditures. our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for developing, testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year and frequently unpredictable. given the length of development and unpredictability of the sales cycle, we may be unable to accurately forecast product demand, which may result in lost sales or excess inventory and associated inventory reserves or write-downs, each of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. we invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. these factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses and increased expenditures and inventory, which together may adversely impact our results of operations. we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our key customers or a counterparty default. some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. while we have long-standing relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. although sales to key customers may vary from period to period, a key customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer cost. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new key customers. additionally, mergers, acquisitions, seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 21 table of contents consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if a counterparty fails to comply with their contractual obligations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. our ability to mitigate a counterparty default may be impeded or diminished by various factors including the terms of our contractual arrangements, market conditions, counterparty insolvency or bankruptcy, or applicable laws and regulations. we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales. a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in this distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. in addition, retail sales of our consumer solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. our ability to reach such consumers depends on us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. our international sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks that may adversely affect our business related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital, health-related risks, investment risks, tariffs, privacy and protection of data and access to personnel. we have significant sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. additionally, the manufacturing of some of our products is concentrated in certain geographical locations. the production of certain drive subassemblies are limited to thailand and the production of media is limited to singapore. disruptions in the economic, environmental, political, legal or regulatory landscape in these countries may have a material adverse impact on our manufacturing operations. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, united kingdom and the european union have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominantly in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. a weakened dollar could increase the effective cost of expenses such as seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 22 table of contents payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts which could be designated as cash flow hedges or not designated as hedging instruments. in addition, our hedges may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. the hedging activities may may not cover our full exposure, subject us to certain counterparty credit risks and may impact our results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, and the impact of international holidays like chinese new year, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, antitrust matters including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. legislation addressing climate change and financial reform may also be enacted, generating additional federal, international or other regulatory compliance obligations. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. the anti-corruption processes and controls we have implemented may be vulnerable to employee malfeasance and inadequate to fully insulate against all eventualities. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in the united states, tax reform legislation commonly known as the tax act has significantly changed how the u.s. taxes corporate multinationals. in response to the tax act, foreign governments may enact new tax laws or new interpretations of the tax laws. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 23 table of contents practices, principles, and interpretations, could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, impact our effective tax rate and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constrained in air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials in, or ship finished product from and as a result our business and operating results may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. acquisition, alliance, joint venture and investment risks. international acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures or investment opportunities may increase our liabilities, fail to achieve expected benefits, disrupt our existing business and adversely affect our operating results. regulatory review and approval by governmental authorities of an alliance, acquisitions, joint venture or investment may result in additional obligations, divestitures, or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. changes in u.s. and international trade policy and resultant retaliatory countermeasures, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties by affected countries, and trading partners are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has and could in the future impose trade barriers including tariffs, quotas, duties or other restrictions on foreign imports. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, regulations, rules, and directives in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention, and transfer of personally identifiable information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation, which came into effect in the european union ( eu ) on may 25, 2018, applies to our operations. in addition, in the u.s. federal and state laws, regulations and rules may be enacted and affect our data handling practices. the legal and regulatory environment around privacy and data protection is continuing to develop in ways we cannot predict and from country to country may be interpreted and applied inconsistently. the various laws, regulations, rules, and directives may impose conflicting or inconsistent compliance obligations and could require us to change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. determinations that there have been violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand, significant financial penalties, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. factors including a perceived decrease in the retention value of our compensation package and increases in the cost of living in jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and further motivate key personnel. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the reductions in workforce that result from the restructuring plans we engage in may make it difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel and if the benefits of our restructuring plans are not realized, our operating results could be negatively affected. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 24 table of contents declines in the value of our investment in k.k. pangea ( pangea ) may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. on may 31, 2018, we invested $1.3 billion in non-convertible preferred stock of pangea for the acquisition of toshiba memory corporation with a consortium of investors led by bain capital private equity. the investment, with a contractual maturity of six years, is accounted for as a held-to-maturity debt security, carried at amortized cost and has a contractual payment-in-kind ( pik ) income that is accrued and added to the carrying value of the investment. if the fair value of our investment, including the accrued pik income declines, we may be required to record impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our results of operations. numerous factors could cause the fair value of our investment to decline, including the credit worthiness of pangea, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or the industries in which pangea operates. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investment may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, floods, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power or water disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, ransomware, system security breaches or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data may be vulnerable to employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error, or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 25 table of contents management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network, or processes, even if unsubstantiated. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability, or reputational harm. we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures, or our inability to successfully modify our it systems to respond to changes in our business needs may cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, we may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties, and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 26 table of contents if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in capacity or in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 27 table of contents limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules may require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and our manufacturing stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. additionally, the regulatory and compliance framework for conflict minerals may undergo changes which may further increase the cost of compliance. our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 28 table of contents significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 29 table of contents structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increase in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments may include readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities with different counterparties, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counterparties and underlying obligors closely. we are not aware of any current material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, however, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 30 table of contents we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and others will not gain access to our trade secrets. in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully counter sue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the united states. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. the stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. if these market or industry-based fluctuations continue to occur in the future, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and shareholders could lose all or a substantial part of their investment. the market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued instability of several large financial institutions; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; actual or anticipated changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 31 table of contents in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. seasonality. seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, and the impact of international holidays like chinese new year, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. legal and regulatory limitations. our international operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, antitrust matters including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control, and other restraints on trade. in addition, china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. legislation addressing climate change and financial reform may also be enacted, generating additional federal, international or other regulatory compliance obligations. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. the anti-corruption processes and controls we have implemented may be vulnerable to employee malfeasance and inadequate to fully insulate against all eventualities. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in the united states, tax reform legislation commonly known as the tax act has significantly changed how the u.s. taxes corporate multinationals. in response to the tax act, foreign governments may enact new tax laws or new interpretations of the tax laws. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 23 table of contents practices, principles, and interpretations, could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, impact our effective tax rate and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constrained in air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials in, or ship finished product from and as a result our business and operating results may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition, or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. acquisition, alliance, joint venture and investment risks. international acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures or investment opportunities may increase our liabilities, fail to achieve expected benefits, disrupt our existing business and adversely affect our operating results. regulatory review and approval by governmental authorities of an alliance, acquisitions, joint venture or investment may result in additional obligations, divestitures, or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. tariffs or other restrictions on foreign imports. changes in u.s. and international trade policy and resultant retaliatory countermeasures, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties by affected countries, and trading partners are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has and could in the future impose trade barriers including tariffs, quotas, duties or other restrictions on foreign imports. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, regulations, rules, and directives in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention, and transfer of personally identifiable information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation, which came into effect in the european union ( eu ) on may 25, 2018, applies to our operations. in addition, in the u.s. federal and state laws, regulations and rules may be enacted and affect our data handling practices. the legal and regulatory environment around privacy and data protection is continuing to develop in ways we cannot predict and from country to country may be interpreted and applied inconsistently. the various laws, regulations, rules, and directives may impose conflicting or inconsistent compliance obligations and could require us to change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. determinations that there have been violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand, significant financial penalties, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including china, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. factors including a perceived decrease in the retention value of our compensation package and increases in the cost of living in jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and further motivate key personnel. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the reductions in workforce that result from the restructuring plans we engage in may make it difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel and if the benefits of our restructuring plans are not realized, our operating results could be negatively affected. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 24 table of contents declines in the value of our investment in k.k. pangea ( pangea ) may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. on may 31, 2018, we invested $1.3 billion in non-convertible preferred stock of pangea for the acquisition of toshiba memory corporation with a consortium of investors led by bain capital private equity. the investment, with a contractual maturity of six years, is accounted for as a held-to-maturity debt security, carried at amortized cost and has a contractual payment-in-kind ( pik ) income that is accrued and added to the carrying value of the investment. if the fair value of our investment, including the accrued pik income declines, we may be required to record impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our results of operations. numerous factors could cause the fair value of our investment to decline, including the credit worthiness of pangea, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or the industries in which pangea operates. increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investment may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, floods, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power or water disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, ransomware, system security breaches or similar events or disruptions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data may be vulnerable to employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error, or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 25 table of contents management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network, or processes, even if unsubstantiated. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability, or reputational harm. we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures, or our inability to successfully modify our it systems to respond to changes in our business needs may cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. from time to time, we may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties, and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry. we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 26 table of contents if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects. the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components. if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in capacity or in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 27 table of contents limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers. from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules may require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and our manufacturing stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. we expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification and disclosure requirements. additionally, the regulatory and compliance framework for conflict minerals may undergo changes which may further increase the cost of compliance. our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment. our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 28 table of contents significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 29 table of contents structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increase in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited. the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. our short-term investments may include readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. our investment policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. we mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities with different counterparties, limiting the time to maturity and by monitoring the counterparties and underlying obligors closely. we are not aware of any current material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term investments, however, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes, equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in pangea. as of june 29, 2018, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. we determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of june 29, 2018. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. the table below presents principal amounts and related fixed or weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 29, 2018. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value at june 29, 2018 assets cash equivalents: floating rate $ 1,016 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,016 $ 1,016 average interest rate 2.48 % 2.48 % investment in debt security: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,275 $ 1,275 (a ) fixed interest rate 5.00 % 5.00 % debt fixed rate $ 499 $ $ $ 750 $ 951 $ 2,662 $ 4,862 $ 4,702 average interest rate 3.75 % 4.25 % 4.75 % 4.99 % 4.70 % (a) fair value was determined to approximate carrying value at amortized cost. foreign currency exchange risk. from time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. at this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the british vote to exit the european union. seagate technology public limited company | 2018 form 10-k | 54 table of contents we hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. we entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount of 139.5 billion japanese yen ($1.3 billion at june 29, 2018), to hedge foreign exchange fluctuations of our investment principal in non-convertible preferred stock debt security of pangea. we did not designate these contracts as hedges under asc 815, derivatives and hedging and, therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the debt security. all these foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months. we evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively. we entered into a foreign currency forward exchange contract with a notional amount of approximate 7 billion japanese yen ($66 million at june 29, 2018), to hedge the pik income related to pangea investment, which is designated as a cash flow hedge. we evaluate the hedge effectiveness using the critical terms match method pursuant to asu 2017-12, derivatives and hedging, targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities, which we adopted in the june 2018 quarter. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in cost of revenue, or other, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the fiscal years 2018 and 2017. the table below provides information as of june 29, 2018 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: japanese yen $ 1,376 $ 106.50 $ 10 total $ 1,376 $ 10 (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. we did not have outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of june 30, 2017. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future ability to raise capital, increase the cost of such capital and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we have an investment in debt security of $1.3 billion carried at amortized cost. we review our debt security for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such asset below carrying value is other-than-temporary. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan the seagate deferred compensation plan (the sdcp ). in fiscal year 2014, we entered into a total return swap ( trs ) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcp liabilities. we pay a floating rate, based on libor plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcp liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. seerisk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, which we encourage you to carefully read. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date on which they were made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or circumstances after the date they were made. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 2 table of contents part i item 1. business we are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or hdds. in addition to hdds, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives ( ssds ), solid state hybrid drives ( sshds ) and storage subsystems. hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness. complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid state drives use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most ssds use nand flash memory. in addition to hdds and ssds, sshds combine the features of ssds and hdds in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller ssd acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. our hdd products are designed for nearline and mission critical applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, network-attached storage ( nas ), digital video recorders ( dvrs ) and gaming consoles; and edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing. our ssd product portfolio is mainly comprised of serial attached scsi ( sas ) and non-volatile memory express ( nvme ) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems. our enterprise data solutions ( eds ) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ). industry overview data storage industry the data storage industry includes companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data, computing platforms and consumer markets. the rapid growth in data generation and the intelligent application of data are driving demand for data storage. as more data is created at endpoints outside traditional data centers and requires processing at the edge, the need for data storage and management has also increased. examples of this include autonomous vehicles, smart manufacturing systems and smart cities. we believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content, further enabled by fifth-generation wireless ( 5g ), the edge, the internet of things ( iot ) and artificial intelligence ( ai ), will continue to create demand for higher capacity storage solutions. the new ecosystem is expected to require increasing amounts of data storage both at the edge and in enterprises that store the data. markets the principal data storage markets include: enterprise storage. we define enterprise storage as dedicated storage area networks and hyperscale cloud storage environments. enterprise and cloud data centers run solutions which are designed for nearline, mission critical and enterprise ssd applications. nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. we expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive exabyte demand. additionally, with the increased requirements for storage capacity and performance driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich content, we expect that the increased exabyte demand will require further buildout of data centers by cloud service providers ( csps ) and other enterprises that use high-capacity nearline devices. mission critical applications are defined as those that use high performance enterprise class hdds and ssds with sophisticated firmware. enterprise storage is vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise workloads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. we expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 3 table of contents edge non-compute. we define edge non-compute applications as solutions designed primarily for consumer electronic devices that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution, including surveillance, nas, dvrs and gaming. consumer solutions support a variety of consumer and industrial needs with internal and external storage solutions. disk drives for external storage are designed for purposes such as portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer current desktop, notebook, tablet or mobile phone device. edge compute. we define edge compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications ranging from traditional laptops to convertible systems. some edge compute applications rely less on built-in storage and instead rely on cloud storage for long-term archiving. enterprise data solutions. we define enterprise data solutions as applications that provide end-to-end solutions to businesses for the purpose of modular systems and scale-out storage. applications can contain hdds and ssds and may offer file management systems, software and compute power, enabling both private and public clouds. participants in the data storage industry include: major subcomponent manufacturers. companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, and application specific integrated circuits ( asics ). storage device manufacturers. companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which integrate flash memory into storage products such as ssds. storage solutions manufacturers and system integrators. companies, such as oems, that bundle and package storage solutions, distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications, csps that provide cloud based solutions to businesses for the purpose of scale-out storage solutions and modular systems, and producers of solutions such as storage racks. hyperscale data centers. large hyperscale data center companies, many of which are csps, are increasingly designing their own storage subsystems and having them built by contract manufacturers for use inside their own data centers. this trend is reshaping the storage system and subsystem market and driving innovation in system design and changes in the competitive landscape of large storage system vendors. storage services. companies that provide and host services and solutions, which include storage, backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of data. demand for data storage the international data corporation ( idc ) forecasted in its 2018 digitization of the world study that the global datasphere will grow from 33 zettabytes in 2018 to 175 zettabytes by 2025. according to idc, we are fast approaching a new era of the data age, which we expect will have a positive impact on storage demand. the digital transformation has given rise to many new applications, all of which rely on faster access to and a secure storage of an increasing amount of data. as more applications require real-time decision making, more data processing and storage is moving near the edge of the network, which we believe will result in a buildup in private and edge cloud environments that will enable fast and secure access to data throughout the iot ecosystem. factors contributing to the growth of digital content include: creation, sharing and consumption of media-rich content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition videos and digital music through smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, personal video cameras, dvrs, gaming consoles or other digital devices; increasing use of video surveillance and the emergence of new surveillance systems which feature higher resolution digital cameras and thus require larger data storage capacities; seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 4 table of contents creation and collection of data through the development and evolution of the iot ecosystem, big data analytics, artificial intelligence and new technology trends such as self-driving cars and drones, smart manufacturing, and smart cities; the growing need for analysis of and action upon data created at the edge instead of processing and analyzing such data at data centers, which is particularly the case in verticals such as autonomous vehicles, property monitoring systems, smart manufacturing and others; continued advancement of the cloud, including the build out of large numbers of cloud data centers by csps and private companies transitioning on-site data centers into the cloud; and need for protection of increased digital content through redundant storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. as a result of these factors, we anticipate that the nature and volume of content being created will require greater storage capability, which is more efficiently and economically facilitated by higher capacity storage devices in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, protect, backup and use such content. in addition, the economics of storage infrastructure are also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyperscale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage devices. accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for data storage solutions going forward. demand trends we believe that continued growth in digital content creation requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, analyze, manage, protect, back up and use such content. we also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the storage solutions will evolve as well. we expect increased data creation will lead to the expansion of the need for storage in the form of hdds, eds and ssds. while the advance of solid state technology in many end markets is expected to increase, we believe that in the foreseeable future, cloud, traditional enterprise, edge non-compute and edge compute markets that require high-capacity storage solutions will be best served by hard disk drives due to their ability to deliver the most cost effective, reliable and energy-efficient mass storage devices. we also believe that as hard disk drive capacities continue to increase, a focus exclusively on unit demand does not reflect the increase in demand for exabytes. as demand for higher capacity drives increases, the demand profile has shifted to reflect fewer total hdd units, but with higher average capacity per drive and higher overall exabyte demand. industry supply balance from time to time, the storage industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. to the extent that the storage industry builds or maintains capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. our business data storage technologies the design and manufacturing of hdds depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques. therefore, it requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. we design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. our core technology platforms, including upcoming innovations like the throughput-optimizing mach.2 and the high-capacity enabling heated-assisted magnetic reading ( hamr ), are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. this design and manufacturing approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of data storage applications and industries. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 5 table of contents disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: input/output operations per second ( iops ), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; storage capacity, commonly expressed in terabytes ( tb ), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute ( rpm ), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. areal density is measured by storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. the storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the size and number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. we also offer ssds as part of our storage solutions portfolio. our portfolio includes devices with sas and nvme interfaces. the ssds differ from hdds in that they are without mechanical parts. ssds store data on nand flash memory cells, or metal-oxide semiconductor transistors using a charge on a capacitor to represent a binary digit. ssd technology offers fast access to data and robust performance. ssds complement mission-critical enterprise applications, hyperscale applications, high-density data centers, cloud environments and web servers. the sshds that we manufacture contain a technology that fuses some features of ssds and hdds. they include high capacity hdds with flash memory that acts as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data. manufacturing we design and produce our own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. this integrated approach enables us to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. we believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to take advantage of the opportunities to leverage the close interdependence of components for disk drives. our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. we continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing costs by: employing manufacturing automation; employing machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence; improving product quality and reliability; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and operating our facilities at optimal capabilities. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 6 table of contents a vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs when capacity utilization is not optimized. components and raw materials disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. we maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as read/write heads and recording media. read/write heads. the function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. the tolerances of read/write heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges related to magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. we perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. media. data is written to or read from the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. the media is made from non-magnetic substrates, usually an aluminum alloy or glass and is coated with thin layers of magnetic materials. we use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. we purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties. printed circuit board assemblies. the printed circuit board assemblies ( pcbas ) are comprised of standard and custom asics and ancillary electronic control chips. the asics control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. the asics and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture ( sata ), small computer system interface ( scsi ), or sas to communicate to the host systems. head disk assembly. the head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. the read/write heads are mounted vertically on an e-shaped assembly ( e-block ) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. the e-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. we purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. disk drive assembly. following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the pcba, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and machine learning prior to packaging and shipment. disk drive assembly and machine learning operations occur primarily at our facilities located in china and thailand. we perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand and the united states. contract manufacturing. we outsource the manufacturing and assembly of certain components and products to third parties in various countries worldwide. this includes outsourcing the pcbas used in our disk drives, ssds and storage subsystems. we continue to participate in the design of our components and products and are directly involved in qualifying key suppliers and components used in our products. suppliers of components and industry constraints. there are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 7 table of contents manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. however, our business has been adversely affected by our suppliers capacity constraints in the past and this could occur again. commodity and other manufacturing costs. the production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in price and the supply of which has at times been constrained. in addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. as a result, we may increase our use of alternative shipment methods to help offset any increase in freight costs, and we will continually review various forms of shipments and routes in order to minimize the exposure to higher freight costs. products we offer a broad range of storage solutions for enterprise, data center, edge non-compute and edge compute applications. we offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of capacity, performance, product quality, reliability, price, form factor, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features and other customer integration requirements. our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. currently our product offerings include: enterprise storage enterprise capacity. our enterprise capacity hard drives ship in 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors and in storage capacities of up to 16tb. these products are designed for mass capacity data storage, server environments and cloud systems that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security. they are available in sata and sas interfaces. we also offer low-cost storage options designed specifically for active archive storage environments. enterprise performance hdds and ssds. we continue to support 10,000 and 15,000 rpm hdds, which enable increased throughput and improve energy efficiency. our enterprise ssds are available in capacities up to 15tb with endurance options up to 10 drive writes per day ( dwpd ) and various interfaces. our ssds deliver the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. edge non-compute applications surveillance. our surveillance hdds are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. these surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple streams and capacities up to 16tb. nas. our nas drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by small and medium businesses, and incorporate interface software with custom-built health management, error recovery controls, power settings and vibration tolerance. our nas hdd solutions are available in capacities up to 16tb. video. our video hdds are used in video applications like dvrs and media centers. these disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4tb to support leading-edge digital entertainment. gaming. gaming hdds are specifically optimized for console gaming usage. these products are designed to enhance the gaming experience during game-load and game-play and are available in capacities up to 8tb. consumer solutions. our external storage solutions are shipped under the seagate backup plus and expansion product lines, as well as under the lacie and maxtor brand names. these product lines are available in capacities up to 168tb. we strive to deliver the best customer experience, by leveraging our core technologies, offering services such as seagate recovery services (data recovery) and partnering with leading brands such as xbox, sony and adobe. edge compute applications desktop hdds. our 3.5-inch desktop drives ship in both traditional hdd and sshd configurations and offer up to 14tb of capacity. desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers and workstations. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 8 table of contents mobile hdds. our 2.5-inch laptop drives ship in a variety of capacities (up to 5tb) and technologies (hdd and sshd) to support mobile needs. used in applications ranging from traditional laptops, convertible systems and external storage, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. customers we sell our products to major oems, distributors and retailers. oem customers, including large hyperscale data center companies, typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. these agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. in addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or oem delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. they typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. the agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited rights of return and price protection rights. in addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 13. b usiness segment and geographic information contained in this report for a description of our major customers. competition we compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, edge non-compute and edge compute applications and with other companies in the data storage industry that provide ssds and eds. some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per terabyte, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership and brand. while different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to many of these factors in the markets that we currently address. principal competitors. we compete with manufacturers of storage solutions and the principal manufacturers in the data storage solution industry include: seagate, selling the seagate, lacie and maxtor brands; micron technology, inc.; samsung electronics; sk hynix, inc.; toshiba memory holdings corporation; toshiba corporation; and western digital corporation, operating the western digital and hitachi global storage technologies subsidiaries and sandisk. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 9 table of contents price erosion. historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for data storage products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ( like-for-like products ). price declines for like-for-like products ( price erosion ) tend to be more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. data storage manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of data storage products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and product cost reductions. we believe the data storage industry experienced modest price erosion in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017. product life cycles and changing technology. success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. generally, the drive manufacturer that introduces a new product first benefits from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields continue to be of significant competitive importance. seasonality the disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. this seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. beyond traditional seasonality, variability of sales can be related to the timing of it spending or a reflection of cyclical demand from csps based on the timing of their procurement and deployment requirements and the supply and demand balance of other components such as nand and dram. research and development we are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. this platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media; market-specific product technology; and technology we believe may lead to new business opportunities. the primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies for our product development teams as well as to allow us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. patents and licenses as of june 28, 2019, we had approximately 6,000 u.s. patents and 1,300 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as approximately 900 u.s. and 500 foreign patent applications pending. the number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 10 table of contents the data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation arising from time to time relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. from time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims without a material adverse effect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. in addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for more information on these claims, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies . the costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. backlog in view of industry practice, whereby customers may cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog for our business is of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results. environmental matters our operations are subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. we have established environmental management systems and continually update environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. we believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. we budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. some environmental laws, such as the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act of 1980 (as amended, the superfund law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. we have been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. at each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. we have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time. while our ultimate costs in connection with these sites are difficult to predict, based on current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. for example, the european union ( eu ) has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives and server storage products, put on the market after july 1, 2006. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, taiwan, china, japan and others. the european union reach directive (registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals, ec 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern ( svhcs ) in products. employees at june 28, 2019, we employed approximately 40,500 employees and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 33,500 were located in our asia operations. we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. we believe that our employee relations are good. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 11 table of contents financial information financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data- note 13. business segment and geographic information. corporate information seagate technology public limited company is a public limited company organized under the laws of ireland. available information availability of reports. we are a reporting company under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the 1934 exchange act ), and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). because we make filings to the sec electronically, the public may access this information at the sec website: www.sec.gov. this site contains reports, proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. website access. our website is www.seagate.com. we make available, free of charge at the investor relations section of our website (investors.seagate.com), our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the sec. reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to section 16(a) of the 1934 exchange act are also available on our website. investors. investors and others should note that we routinely use the investor relations section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. while not all of the information that the company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. accordingly, the company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the company to review the information that it shares on www.seagate.com. information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this form 10-k. executive officers the following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of august 2, 2019. there are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. name age positions william d. mosley 52 director and chief executive officer gianluca romano 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer james j. murphy (a) 60 executive vice president, worldwide sales and marketing jeffrey d. nygaard 55 executive vice president, global operations katherine e. schuelke 56 senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary (a) mr. murphy is leaving the company and will remain for an interim transition period until december 31, 2019. william d. mosley, 52, has served as our chief executive officer ( ceo ) since october 2017 and as a member of the board since july 25, 2017. he was previously our president and chief operating officer ( coo ) from june 2016 to september 2017. he also served as our president of operations and technology from october 2013 to june 2016 and as our executive vice president of operations from march 2011 until october 2013. prior to these positions, dr. mosley served as executive vice president, sales and marketing from february 2009 through march 2011; senior vice president of global disk storage operations from 2007 to 2009; and vice president of research and development, engineering from 2002 to 2007. he joined seagate in 1996 as a senior engineer with a phd in solid state physics. from 1996 to 2002, he served at seagate in varying roles of increasing responsibility until his promotion to vice president. gianluca romano, 50, has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2019. from october 2011 to december 2018, mr. romano served as corporate vice president, business finance and accounting at micron technology, inc. prior to his role at micron, mr. romano served as vice president finance, corporate controller at numonyx, inc. from 2008 to 2010. from 1994 until 2008, mr. romano held various finance positions at stmicroelectronics, most recently as group vice-president, central &amp; north europe finance director, shared accounting services director. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 12 table of contents james j. murphy, 60, has served as our executive vice president of worldwide sales and marketing since january 2017. from 2003 to 2016, mr. murphy was employed by western digital corporation where he served in a variety of executive leadership roles including president of western digital corporation, executive vice president of worldwide sales &amp; sales operations, and vice president of asia pacific sales. mr. murphy began his career with ibm in 1984 in the sales organization, where he held a number of sales roles with increasing responsibilities over a seven-year period. jeffrey d. nygaard, 55, has served as our executive vice president, operations, product development and technology development since november 2018. mr. nygaard also served as our executive vice president, global operations from october 2017 to november 2018; senior vice president, global operations and supply chain from march 2017 to october 2017; senior vice president, recording head operations from may 2013 to february 2017; vice president slider, hga, hsa operations from 2011 to april 2013; vice president and country manager, thailand and penang operations from 2009 to 2011; vice president and country manager, thailand operations and asia drive engineering from 2006 to 2009; and vice president, product and process development from 2004 to 2006. from 1994 to 2006, mr. nygaard served in varying roles of increasing responsibilities in engineering at seagate until his promotion to vice president. mr. nygaard began his career with raytheon and ibm where he held positions as a design engineer and senior engineer. katherine e. schuelke, 56, has served as our senior vice president, chief legal officer and corporate secretary since june 2017. from 2011 to january 2016, ms. schuelke was the senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at altera corporation ( altera ). prior to that, ms. schuelke was vice president, general counsel, and secretary at altera from 2001 to 2011. at altera, she held other positions of increasing responsibility from 1996 through 2001. ms. schuelke began her career at an international law firm. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in highly competitive markets and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological changes and other market developments, including price, could harm our ability to compete . we face intense competition in the data storage industry. our principal sources of competition include: disk drive and ssd manufacturers, such as micron technology, inc., samsung electronics, sk hynix, inc., toshiba corporation, toshiba memory holdings corporation and western digital corporation; and companies that provide storage subsystems and components to oems, including electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) and contract electronic manufacturing ( cem ). the markets for our data storage products are characterized by technological change, which is driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. these standards provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability but they also hinder our ability to innovate or differentiate our products. when this occurs, our products may be deemed commodities, which could result in downward pressure on prices. we also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies such as flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and improvements in performance have resulted in increased competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. some customers for both enterprise and edge compute applications have adopted ssds as an alternative to hard drives in certain applications. further adoption of alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product portfolio and reduce our market share. any resulting increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the barriers to entry into our markets could be lowered, allowing large ems and cem companies that utilize general-purpose design skills to enter our markets and reduce the value of our specialized research and design skills. if our markets become more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative, alternative products to our customers or match the price declines or cost efficiencies, we will have difficulty competing against the large ems and cem companies. this could result in lower profit margins or a loss of market share. any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal markets would adversely affect our results of operations. we must plan our investments in our products and incur costs before we have customer orders or know about the market conditions at the time the products are produced. if we fail to predict demand accurately for our products or if the markets for our products change, we may be unable to meet demand or we may have insufficient demand, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations . our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with most of the orders typically coming at the end of each quarter. our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory each quarter for production in that quarter or a specific quarter in the future. as a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales that may never materialize or that may be substantially lower than expected. if actual demand for our products is lower than the forecast, we may also experience higher inventory carrying costs, manufacturing rework costs and product obsolescence. conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may have insufficient inventory to satisfy demand and may have to forego sales. other factors that may affect our ability to anticipate or meet the demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations include: competitive product announcements or technological advances that result in excess supply when customers cancel purchases in anticipation of newer products; variable demand resulting from unanticipated upward or downward pricing pressures; our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our data storage products; changes in our product mix, which may adversely affect our gross margins; manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore, thailand or the united states; seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 14 table of contents limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products to foreign consumers. in addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each quarter from a number of relatively large orders. if one or more of our key customers decides to defer or cancel a purchase order or delay product acceptance in any given quarter, our revenues for that quarter may be significantly reduced and fall below our expectations. conversely, if one of our key customers unexpectedly increases its orders, we may be unable to produce the additional product volumes in a timely manner or take advantage of any overall increased market demand. this could damage our customer relationships and reputation, which may adversely affect our results of operations. changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in demand for our products . our products are components in computers, data storage systems and consumer electronic devices. historically, the demand for these products has been volatile. unexpected slowdowns in demand for computers, storage subsystems or consumer electronic devices generally result in sharp declines in demand for our products. declines in consumer spending on the systems and devices that incorporate our products could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. sales to the edge compute market remain an important part of our business. this market, however, has been, and we expect it to continue to be, adversely affected by: announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or semiconductor improvements or shifts in consumer preferences and behavior, such as the shift to tablet computers, smart phones, nand flash memory or similar devices; longer product life cycles; and changes in macroeconomic conditions that cause consumers to spend less, such as the imposition of new tariffs and increased laws and regulations. we believe these announcements and introductions from time to time have caused consumers to defer or cancel their purchases, making certain inventory obsolete. whenever an oversupply of products in the market causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual, which may materially adversely affect our financial results. we believe that the deterioration of demand for disk drives in the edge compute market has accelerated, and this deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. in addition, the demand for edge non-compute products is volatile. this volatility may be exacerbated by competing alternative storage technologies, such as flash memory, which meet customers cost and capacity metrics. unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new edge non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. the enterprise storage market for disk drives has been adversely affected by the growth of the utilization of nand flash memory in mission critical applications. this deterioration of the enterprise storage disk drive market could cause our operating results to suffer. an acceleration of the pace of migration of the enterprise storage market to nand flash memory products may materially adversely affect our financial results. we are dependent on our long-term investments to manufacture adequate products. our investment decisions in adding new assembly and test capacity require significant planning and lead-time, and a failure to accurately forecast demand for our products could cause us to over-invest or under-invest, which would lead to excess capacity, under-utilization charges, impairments or loss of sales and revenue opportunities. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 15 table of contents our ability to increase our revenue and maintain our market share depends on our ability to successfully introduce and achieve market acceptance of new products on a timely basis . the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. historically, our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new data storage product offerings. we may face technological, operational and financial challenges in developing new products. in addition, our investments in new product development may not yield the anticipated benefits. our market share and results of operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to: consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our new products; produce these products in adequate volume; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications; or achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations. our failure to accurately anticipate customers needs and accurately identify the shift in technological changes could materially adversely affect our long-term financial results. in addition, the limited number of high-volume oems magnifies the potential effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. if the delivery of our products is delayed, our oem customers may use our competitors products to meet their production requirements. we cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. if our new products are not successful, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. if our products do not keep pace with technological changes, our results of operations will be adversely affected . our customers demand new generations of storage products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, enhanced security, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. we, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. if we are unable to develop new products, identify business strategies and timely introduce competitive product offerings to meet technological shifts, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. when we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. if our products experience increases in failure rates, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products, our factory utilization may decrease and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and our service and warranty costs may increase. in addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make it more difficult for us to effectively compete with our competitors. additionally, we may be unable to produce new products that have higher capacities and more advanced technologies in the volumes and timeframes that are required to meet customer demand. we are transitioning to key areal density recording technologies that use hamr technology to increase hdd capacities. if our transitions to more advanced technologies, including the transition to hdds utilizing hamr technology, require development and production cycles that are longer than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new hdd technologies successfully, we may lose sales and market share, which could significantly harm our financial results. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 16 table of contents we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and our investments to meet our liquidity requirements, including servicing our indebtedness . our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our liquidity requirements, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, investments, servicing our indebtedness and other general corporate requirements. if we cannot fund our liquidity requirements, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, product development efforts, investments and other general corporate expenditures. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies would, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our obligations. we are leveraged and require significant amounts of cash to service our debt. our debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities and reduce our options for capital allocation. our high level of debt presents the following risks: we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements; and covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. in addition, in the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures or incur additional debt to fund our operations, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. if prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. we may not be successful in our efforts to grow our eds and ssd revenues . we have made and continue to make investments to grow our eds and ssd revenues. our ability to grow eds and ssd revenues is subject to the following risks: we may be unable to accurately estimate and predict data center capacity and requirements; we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; and our cloud systems revenues generally have a longer sales cycle, and growth is likely to depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. our results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our revenues as anticipated. in addition, our growth in these markets may bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 17 table of contents changes in the macroeconomic environment may in the future negatively impact our results of operations . changes in macroeconomic conditions may affect consumer and enterprise spending, and as a result, our customers may postpone spending in response to volatility in credit and equity markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. other factors that could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and results of operations include conditions in the labor market, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. macroeconomic developments such as the pending withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, slowing economies in parts of asia and south america or increased tariffs between the u.s. and china, mexico and other countries could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund data storage systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and may cause our share price to decline . our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period. these fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be precipitated by a variety of factors, including: uncertainty in global economic and political conditions which may pose a risk to the overall economy and adversely affect our customers purchasing behavior; adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business; competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors which may shift demand away from our products toward those of our competitors; delays or problems in our introduction of new, more cost-effective products, the inability to achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; changes in purchasing patterns of our customers; application of new or revised industry standards; disruptions in our supply chain; increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components; the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in; changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic conditions and other factors; shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply and demand imbalances; our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; changes in tax laws, regulatory requirements, including export regulations or tariffs, or accounting standards; and adverse changes in the performance of our products. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in our market value. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 18 table of contents we experience seasonal declines in the sales of our products during the second half of our fiscal year which may adversely affect our results of operations . sales of computers, storage subsystems and consumer electronic devices tend to be seasonal, and therefore, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for our products. in particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. in the edge compute and edge non-compute market applications of our data storage business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend of our customers increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. in the enterprise storage market, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. we also experience seasonal reductions in the business activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in europe, and the impact of international holidays like chinese new year, typically result in lower earnings during those periods. since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in the edge non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. we have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions, which impairs our ability to accurately predict our financial and operating results in any periods and may adversely affect our ability to forecast the need for investments and expenditures . our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: the time required for developing, testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; the size of the deployment; and the complexity of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. as a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year and frequently unpredictable. given the length of development and unpredictability of the sales cycle, we may be unable to accurately forecast product demand, which may result in lost sales or excess inventory and associated inventory reserves or write-downs, each of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our key customers . some of our key customers account for a large portion of our revenue. while we have long-standing relationships with many of our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. although sales to key customers may vary from period to period, a key customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. in line with industry practice, new key customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer expense. accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new key customers. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. furthermore, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, it might not be feasible to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could adversely affect our operating results. if a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 19 table of contents we are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales . a substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. certain of our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products. product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. as a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our oem customers. in addition, deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. our distributors ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. if distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in this distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. in addition, retail sales of our consumer solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. our ability to reach such consumers depends on us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. failure to anticipate consumer demand for our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. our international sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks that may adversely affect our business related to disruptions in foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers credit and access to capital, health-related risks, investment risks, tariffs, privacy and protection of data and access to personnel . we have significant sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. we have manufacturing facilities in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in addition to those in the united states. additionally, the manufacturing of some of our products is concentrated in certain geographical locations. the production of certain drive subassemblies are limited to thailand and the production of media is limited to singapore. disruptions in the economic, environmental, political, legal or regulatory landscape in these countries may have a material adverse impact on our manufacturing operations. our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: disruptions in foreign markets. disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in asia, united kingdom and the european union have had an impact on our sales to customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries. fluctuations in currency exchange rates. prices for our products are denominated predominantly in u.s. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside of the u.s. where we sell in dollars. this could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. a weakened dollar could increase the effective cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into foreign currency forward exchange contracts which could be designated as cash flow hedges or not designated as hedging instruments. in addition, our hedges may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. the hedging activities may not cover our full exposure, subject us to certain counterparty credit risks and may impact our results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 20 table of contents longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constrained in air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials in, or ship finished product from and as a result our business and operating results may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, rules and regulations in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention and transfer information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation, which is in effect in the european union ( eu ), applies to our operations. in the u.s., numerous federal and state laws, rules and regulations apply to our data handling practices. for example, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) which will, among other things, require new disclosures to california consumers and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information when it goes into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa was amended in september 2018, and it is unclear whether this legislation will be modified again or how it will be interpreted. the effects of this legislation potentially are wide-ranging and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. additionally, other states in the u.s. have proposed or enacted similar laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with various laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection may require us to change our data practices, which could result in increased costs, require significant changes to our business and operations and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand and reputation, significant financial penalties and liability, governmental investigations and proceedings, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 21 table of contents access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including the u.s., thailand, china and singapore, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. the reductions in workforce that result from our historical restructurings have made and may continue to make it difficult for us to recruit and retain personnel. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our business is subject to various laws, regulations and governmental policies that may cause us to incur significant expense . our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. in particular, legislative, regulatory or other areas of significance for our businesses that u.s. and non-u.s. governments have focused and continue to focus on include antitrust and competition law, improper payments, data privacy and sovereignty, currency exchange controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls or tariffs on imports and exports in the u.s. or other countries, complex economic sanctions and the enactment of u.s. tax reform and potential further changes to tax laws may have an effect on our corporate structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. in addition, regulation or government scrutiny may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations . the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy including in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. the u.s. government has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices to adequately address any tariffs, quotas or duties result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policies, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties, making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 22 table of contents we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties . our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by storage and maintenance of data will increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data may be vulnerable to employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network or processes, even if unsubstantiated. we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability or reputational harm. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 23 table of contents we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures or our inability to successfully modify our it systems to respond to changes in our business needs may cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects . the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition . from time to time, we may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 24 table of contents the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry . we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and exabytes volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments to develop new components . if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in capacity or in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers . from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 25 table of contents the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects . our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment . our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. we may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investment opportunities that involve risks that could adversely affect our results of operations . from time to time, we pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. therefore, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, the terms on which we are able to consummate a transaction may not be commercially reasonable for us to pursue. we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. in addition, our cash reserves could diminish significantly as a result of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments we pursue. even if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies, we cannot be certain that we will realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we pursue. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 26 table of contents operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, customer requirements and regulations regarding conflicts minerals and other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. sec rules require certain disclosures regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. furthermore, our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. if we are unable to comply with requirements regarding the use of conflict and other minerals, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business . from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increases in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 27 table of contents our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited . the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. sections 382 and 383 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally impose annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 7. income taxes contained in this report for, among other things, a description of current net operating loss and tax credit carryforward limitations. we are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . we are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management attention from operating our business. in addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. if patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. if our products were found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data-note 14. legal, environmental and other contingencies contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. in the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third-parties. we expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. there can be no assurance that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and others will not gain access to our trade secrets. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 28 table of contents in addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully counter sue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more difficult to enforce than in the united states. therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the united states. the price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly . the market price of our ordinary shares has experienced price fluctuations and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future. the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in response to several factors including: general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions and negative financial news unrelated to our business or industry; the timing and amount of our share repurchases; actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who offer alternative storage technology solutions; our failure to meet our guidance or the performance estimates of investment research analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; significant announcements by or changes in financial condition of a large customer, if any; general stock market conditions; the occurrence of major catastrophic events; changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; actual or anticipated changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. market price fluctuations of our ordinary shares could impact the value of our equity compensation, which could affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. in addition, in the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. if similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly . although historically we have announced regular cash dividend payments and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at historical levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. the declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower market valuation of our ordinary shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 20 table of contents longer payment cycles. our customers outside of the united states are sometimes allowed longer time periods for payment than our u.s. customers. this increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular customers may worsen during the course of the payment period. potential adverse tax consequences. our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. in addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm length basis. due to inconsistencies in application of the arm length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. we are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. the ultimate results of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods. in light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development base erosion and profit shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. these actual and potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles and interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate. increased costs. the shipping and transportation costs associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our u.s. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries. volatility in fuel costs, political instability or constrained in air transportation may lead us to develop alternative shipment methods, which could disrupt our ability to receive raw materials in, or ship finished product from and as a result our business and operating results may be harmed. credit and access to capital risks. our international customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer or its bank financial condition or the inability to access other financing. global health outbreaks. the occurrence of a pandemic disease may adversely impact our operations and some of our key customers. such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. privacy and protection of data . our business is subject to a number of laws, rules and regulations in the countries where we operate pertaining to the collection, processing, security, use, retention and transfer information about our customers, consumers and employees. for example, the general data protection regulation, which is in effect in the european union ( eu ), applies to our operations. in the u.s., numerous federal and state laws, rules and regulations apply to our data handling practices. for example, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) which will, among other things, require new disclosures to california consumers and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information when it goes into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa was amended in september 2018, and it is unclear whether this legislation will be modified again or how it will be interpreted. the effects of this legislation potentially are wide-ranging and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. additionally, other states in the u.s. have proposed or enacted similar laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with various laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data protection may require us to change our data practices, which could result in increased costs, require significant changes to our business and operations and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. violations of privacy or data protection laws could result in adverse effects on our business and results of operations including damage to our brand and reputation, significant financial penalties and liability, governmental investigations and proceedings, and unanticipated changes to our data handling and processing practices. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 21 table of contents access to personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including the u.s., thailand, china and singapore, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. the reductions in workforce that result from our historical restructurings have made and may continue to make it difficult for us to recruit and retain personnel. increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our business is subject to various laws, regulations and governmental policies that may cause us to incur significant expense . our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. in particular, legislative, regulatory or other areas of significance for our businesses that u.s. and non-u.s. governments have focused and continue to focus on include antitrust and competition law, improper payments, data privacy and sovereignty, currency exchange controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls or tariffs on imports and exports in the u.s. or other countries, complex economic sanctions and the enactment of u.s. tax reform and potential further changes to tax laws may have an effect on our corporate structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. in china, malaysia, northern ireland, singapore and thailand, in which we have significant operating assets, and the european union have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to, fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade. in addition, regulation or government scrutiny may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws, rules and regulations to which we may be subject. violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, government investigations, disruption of our operating activities, damage to our reputation and corporate brand, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the political and media scrutiny surrounding a governmental investigation for the violation of such laws, even if an investigation does not result in a finding of violation, could cause us significant expense and collateral consequences, including reputational harm, that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations . the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy including in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. the u.s. government has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices to adequately address any tariffs, quotas or duties result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policies, including imposition of increased tariffs, quotas or duties, making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. the implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products manufactured abroad or components that we import into the u.s., or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 22 table of contents we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability including legal and regulatory consequences, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences if we encounter cyber-attacks, ransomware or other cyber security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties . our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. as our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by storage and maintenance of data will increase. the measures we have implemented to secure our computer equipment and electronic data may be vulnerable to employee error, hacking, malfeasance, system error or other irregularities and may not be sufficient for all eventualities. the insurance coverage we maintain that is intended to address certain data security risks, may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise. we have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ( it ) systems we use for these purposes. we may also be subject to it system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. such attempts are increasing in technical sophistication, number and ability to evade detection or to obscure such activities. although we take steps to protect against and detect such attempts, our efforts may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other it solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. some of our products contain encryption and other measures to protect third-party content stored on our products. such measures may be compromised, breached or circumvented by sophisticated attackers and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur. breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers or other third-parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation or governmental investigations and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. failure to meet our contractual obligations to promote information security with certain customers may result in liability, including additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation and damage to our brand and reputation. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business, brand and reputation could also be adversely affected by media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our products, network or processes, even if unsubstantiated. we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the u.s., u.k., eu and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. these laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties, significant legal liability or reputational harm. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 23 table of contents we must successfully maintain and upgrade our it systems, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . from time to time, we expand and improve our it systems to support our business going forward. consequently, we are in the process of implementing, and will continue to invest in and implement, modifications and upgrades to our it systems and procedures, including making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality, and building new policies, procedures, training programs and monitoring tools. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing and acquiring these systems, including capital expenditures, additional operating expenses, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to or integrating new systems into our current systems. these implementations, modifications and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, difficulties with implementing new technology systems, delays in our timeline for planned improvements, significant system failures or our inability to successfully modify our it systems to respond to changes in our business needs may cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components, equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects . the cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. the equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. particularly important for our products are components such as read/write heads, substrates for recording media, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. we rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some or all of these components that we do not manufacture, including substrates for recording media, read/write heads, asics, spindle motors, printed circuit boards, suspension assemblies and nand flash memory. many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated which makes our supply chain more vulnerable to regional disruptions such as severe weather, acts of terrorism and an unpredictable geopolitical climate which may have a material impact on the production and availability of many components. if our vendors for these components are unable to meet our cost, quality and supply requirements, continue to remain financially viable or fulfill their contractual commitments and obligations, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. certain rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. we purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including china. we cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations or trade barriers including tariffs, duties, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost. we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the industry in general. further, if our customers experience shortages of components or materials used in their products it could result in a decrease in demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if any major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition . from time to time, we may be involved in various legal, regulatory or administrative investigations, negotiations or proceedings arising in the normal course of business. in the event of litigation, government investigations or governmental proceedings, we are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that may result if outcomes differ from our expectations. in the event of adverse outcomes in any litigation, investigation or government proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, which could materially harm our business. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 24 table of contents the costs associated with litigation and government investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity and length of time devoted to such litigation or investigation. litigation, investigations or government proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our key personnel, which could also harm our business. if we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry . we continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. we are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and exabytes volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. if we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be impaired. in the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions, restructuring efforts and efforts to increase automation. our restructuring efforts may not yield the intended benefits and may be unsuccessful or disruptive to our business operations which may materially adversely affect our financial results. consolidation among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments to develop new components . if there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then: it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our operating margin would decline; we may have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and we may be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue and operating margin to decline. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. many of our suppliers manufacturing facilities are fully utilized. if they fail to invest in capacity or in the required timeframe, such failure would have an impact on our ability to ramp new products, and may result in a loss of revenue or market share if our competitors did not utilize the same components and were not affected. we often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary licenses become available. in such cases, any technical issues in the supplier technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and harm our financial position. if revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments to certain suppliers . from time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. if our actual revenues in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. as a result, it is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or make penalty-type payments under the terms of these contracts. additionally, because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, we face inventory and other asset risks in the event we do not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 25 table of contents the loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects . our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. the loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. we have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment . our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. our products may contain a defect or be perceived as containing a defect by our customers, as a result of improper use or maintenance. lead times required to manufacture certain components are significant, and a quality excursion may take significant time and resources to remediate. defects in our products, third-party components or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in: increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; loss of or delays in revenues; loss of customers; failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; increased service and warranty costs; and increased insurance costs. defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. such legal actions, including but not limited to product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained. any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. we may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investment opportunities that involve risks that could adversely affect our results of operations . from time to time, we pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. there is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates. therefore, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. even if we can identify them, the terms on which we are able to consummate a transaction may not be commercially reasonable for us to pursue. we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. moreover, our ability to finance potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may be limited by our leverage level, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. in addition, our cash reserves could diminish significantly as a result of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments we pursue. even if we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures with or making investments in other companies, we cannot be certain that we will realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we pursue. political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. our business seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 26 table of contents operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fires, power or water shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond our control. such events may decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. in the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products and disruptions in our operations and some of our key customers. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, customer requirements and regulations regarding conflicts minerals and other laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . the sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. we endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact future financial results. if additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. sec rules require certain disclosures regarding the use of specified minerals, or conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. these rules could affect our ability to source, directly or indirectly, certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. furthermore, our customers and manufacturing stakeholders may place increased demands on our compliance framework which may in turn negatively impact our relationships with our suppliers. if we are unable to comply with requirements regarding the use of conflict and other minerals, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business . from time to time, we engage in restructuring plans that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our real estate facilities and our manufacturing footprint. in addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. additionally, global footprint consolidation and reduction in excess capacity may result in us being unable to respond to increases in forecasted volume of customer demand and loss of revenue opportunity if our competitors have underutilized factories. any cost-cutting measures could impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 27 table of contents our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited . the use of a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to u.s. tax law. sections 382 and 383 of the u.s. internal revenue code generally impose annual limitations on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. as a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes and equity and bond markets. a portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. interest rate risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio. as of june 28, 2019, we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. we determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of june 28, 2019. we have fixed rate debt obligations. we enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. the table below presents principal amounts and related fixed or weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of june 28, 2019. fiscal years ended (dollars in millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value at june 28, 2019 assets cash equivalents: floating rate $ 580 $ $ $ $ $ $ 580 $ 580 average interest rate 2.42 % 2.42 % other debt securities fixed rate $ $ 3 $ $ $ $ 4 $ 7 $ 7 average interest rate 5.00 % 5.00 % debt fixed rate $ $ $ 750 $ 941 $ 500 $ 2,100 $ 4,291 $ 4,349 average interest rate 4.25 % 4.75 % 4.88 % 5.02 % 4.81 % foreign currency exchange risk. from time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. at this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the british vote to exit the european union. we hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. the change in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. all these foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months. we did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in cost of revenue, or other, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the fiscal years 2019 and 2018. seagate technology public limited company | 2019 form 10-k | 47 table of contents the table below provides information as of june 28, 2019 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. the table is provided in u.s. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. (dollars in millions, except average contract rate) notional amount average contract rate estimated fair value (1) foreign currency forward exchange contracts: singapore dollar $ 100 $ 1.36 $ 1 chinese renminbi 99 $ 6.84 (1 ) british pound sterling 18 $ 0.80 total $ 217 $ (1) equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts. other market risks. we have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. we monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. we also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future ability to raise capital, increase the cost of such capital and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties. we are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans the seagate deferred compensation plans (the sdcps ). we entered into a total return swap ( trs ) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the sdcps liabilities. we pay a floating rate, based on the london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ) plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the trs. the trs is designed to substantially offset changes in the sdcps liabilities due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. see