quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. additionally, the company uses short-term forward contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies. the company enters into forward currency-exchange contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries' local currencies. the company does not engage in extensive currency hedging activities; however, the purpose of the company's currency hedging activities is to protect the company's local currency cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the company's forward currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen, and swiss francs. income and losses arising from forward contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative currency agreements. > interest rates certain of the company's short-term available-for-sale investments and long-term obligations are sensitive to changes in interest rates. interest rate changes would result in a change in the fair value of these financial instruments due to the difference between the market interest rate and the rate at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. a 10% decrease in year-end 2003 and 2002 market interest rates would result in a negative impact to the company of $1 million and $2 million, respectively, on the net fair value of its interest-sensitive financial instruments. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments. a 100-basis-point increase in 90-day libor at december 31, 2003, and december 28, 2002, would increase the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by $1 million and $4 million, respectively. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the company's reporting currency as long-term. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euros, british pounds sterling, and japanese yen. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the "accumulated other comprehensive items" component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2003 and 2002 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $89 million and $76 million, respectively. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2003 and 2002 currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $2.3 million and $3.3 million, respectively. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2003 and 2002 currency exchange rates would result in a negative impact of $2.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, on the company's net income. equity prices the company's available-for-sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. in addition, the company's convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the company's common stock. changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the company's available-for-sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. a 10% decrease in year-end 2003 and 2002 market equity prices would result in a negative impact to the company of $10 million and $9 million, respectively, on the net fair value of its price-sensitive equity financial instruments, principally its available-for-sale investments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. additionally, the company uses short-term forward contracts to manage certain exposures to currencies. the company enters into forward currency-exchange contracts to hedge firm purchase and sale commitments denominated in currencies other than its subsidiaries' local currencies. the company does not engage in extensive currency hedging activities; however, the purpose of the company's currency hedging activities is to protect the company's local currency cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the company's forward currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in u.s. dollars, euros, british pounds sterling, and swiss francs. income and losses arising from forward contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative currency agreements. interest rates certain of the company's short-term available-for-sale investments and long-term obligations are sensitive to changes in interest rates. interest rate changes would result in a change in the fair value of these financial instruments due to the difference between the market interest rate and the rate at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. a 10% decrease in year-end 2004 and 2003 market interest rates would result in a negative impact to the company of $5 million and $1 million, respectively, on the net fair value of its interest-sensitive financial instruments. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments. a 100-basis-point increase in 90-day libor at december 31, 2004 and 2003, would increase the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by $1 million. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the company's reporting currency as long-term. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euros, british pounds sterling, and japanese yen. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the "accumulated other comprehensive items" component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2004 and 2003 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $106 million and $89 million, respectively. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2004 and 2003 currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $5.9 million and $6.9 million, respectively. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2004 and 2003 currency exchange rates would result in a negative impact of $3.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively, on the company's net income. > thermo electron corporation equity prices the company's available-for-sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in price. in addition, the company's convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the company's common stock. changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the company's available-for-sale investments and convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. a 10% decrease in year-end 2004 and 2003 market equity prices would result in a negative impact to the company of $10 million on the net fair value of its price-sensitive equity financial instruments, principally its available-for-sale investments.business segments and products we report our business in two segments: analytical technologies and laboratory products and services. for financial information about segments, including domestic and international operations and export sales, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. financial statement index 3 table of contents analytical technologies segment we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries, through our analytical technologies segment. this segment has seven principal product groupings scientific instruments, biosciences, microbiology, integrative technologies, diagnostics, environmental instruments and process instruments and provides a broad range of instruments, bioscience reagents, diagnostic assays, software and services to address various scientific challenges in laboratories, manufacturing and the field. our scientific instruments include analytical instrumentation that analyzes prepared samples. our biosciences products include leading reagents, tools and services used in life science research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical production. our microbiology products include high-quality reagents and diagnostic kits used in the diagnosis of infectious disease or for testing for bacterial contamination to assure the safety and quality of consumer products such as food and pharmaceuticals. our integrative technologies offerings include software interpretation tools and development support for the data generated by the instruments as well as laboratory automation equipment and systems. our diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare and other laboratories to prepare and analyze patient samples to detect and diagnose diseases. our environmental instruments include solutions and services for environmental monitoring, safety and security. our process instruments provide measurement solutions and services outside the laboratory to enable process control and optimization. scientific instruments our analytical instrumentation is used primarily in laboratory and industrial settings and incorporates a range of techniques, including mass spectrometry (ms), chromatography and optical spectroscopy, and can be combined with a range of accessories, consumables, software, spectral reference databases, services and support to provide a complete solution to the customer. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming gas phase charged ions that are then analyzed according to mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a fragmentation pattern that provides structurally diagnostic information. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on physical and chemical characteristics specific to each component. optical spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength of light, for example, visible (light), ultraviolet or infra-red. in life sciences markets, we offer a line of mass spectrometers including ion traps, quadrupoles and other advanced mass spectrometers, as well as liquid chromatographs (lcs) and columns, and multi-instrument combinations of these products as integrated solutions (lc-ms). these systems are tailored to meet the rigorous demands of lab professionals in applications such as drug discovery, life science research and analytical quantitation. financial statement index 4 table of contents ion trap and hybrid ms . the company's ion trap and hybrid mass spectrometry product lines feature tiered portfolios to support a wide spectrum of analytical requirements. these instruments support applications ranging from routine compound identification and high performance liquid chromatography (hplc) detection to sophisticated research applications such as the analysis of low-abundance components in complex biological matrices. ltq ft ultra tm combines our most advanced ion trap and fourier transform (ft) ion cyclotron resonance (icr) technologies into a single instrument with superior analytical power and versatility. the system uniquely combines high resolution, accurate mass determinations and ms n (mass spectrometry to the nth power) for high-throughput analysis on a single instrument. ltq orbitrap xl tm combines our most advanced ion trap with our patented orbitrap technology, providing high resolution and accurate mass determinations over a broad dynamic range for advanced proteomics and small molecule research. ltq orbitrap discovery tm combines our most advanced ion trap with our patented orbitrap technology, providing excellent resolution and mass accuracy for general proteomics and metabolism applications. ltq xl tm based on a 2-dimensional (2-d) linear ion trap design and incorporating patented innovative technologies and ease-of-use features, this system is primarily used for metabolic profiling and proteomics research. lxq tm based on a 2-d linear ion trap design, this system provides high-throughput performance for drug discovery, forensics and proteomics applications. lcq fleet tm a robust, entry-level ion trap mass spectrometer for routine analysis of complex samples. triple quadrupole ms . the company's tsq quantum series consists of an advanced portfolio of triple quadrupole mass spectrometers with both liquid chromatography (lc) and gas chromatography (gc) inlets. tsq quantum access tm a versatile, entry-level mass spectrometer that is used in environmental and food safety laboratories. tsq quantum discovery max tm this ultra-compact benchtop ms system incorporates innovative technology for increased sensitivity, precision, ruggedness and reliability. it is principally designed for high-productivity environments such as environmental, clinical research and drug discovery laboratories. with the ion max source, the tsq quantum discovery max addresses the needs of these laboratories for more rugged and dependable lc-ms/ms to enable around-the-clock productivity. tsq quantum ultra tm an advanced instrument used primarily for bioanalytical studies. it features the ion max source with interchangeable electrospray ionization (esi) and atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (apci) probes for increased robustness and sensitivity. tsq quantum gc tm high performance gc-ms/ms system that provides high sensitivity and selectivity for applications in environmental, food safety, pharmaceutical and clinical research laboratories. in addition, we supply a range of sample preparation capabilities for mass spectrometry including advanced sample extraction and liquid chromatography products, which are used with triple quadrupole mass spectrometers in bioanalysis and drug discovery. tm represents a trademark or service mark of thermo fisher scientific inc. or its subsidiaries. financial statement index 5 table of contents a significant and growing application for our technologically advanced mass spectrometers is proteomics, the study of proteins. most drugs about 90 percent interact with proteins, so multi-instrument systems that can rapidly identify and quantify proteins are of increasing value to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. the combination of etd (electron transfer dissociation) with our ltq xl ion trap machine extends the range of techniques for proteomics researchers and enables routine analysis of protein modifications. we continue to introduce new systems that address the breadth of primary analytical needs for high-throughput analysis including bioanalysis and proteomics research, as well as for other growing life science areas such as: biomarkers compounds that may be endogenous and signal the early onset of a specific disease. adme/tox absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicology studies that are conducted for drug discovery in support of human clinical trials. metabalomics measurement of the real biochemical status, dynamics, interactions and regulation of whole systems or organisms at a molecular level. in addition, thermo fisher offers a broad range of advanced magnetic sector instrumentation for high-resolution ms. this range also covers organic ms, gas isotope ratio ms and thermal ionization ms. liquid chromatography . our hplc systems, comprising the high speed accela hplc, surveyor plus tm and spectrasystem tm , offer high throughput and sensitivity. they are sold as stand-alone instrumentation (hplc) or as integrated systems with our mass spectrometers (lc-ms and lc-ms/ms). the surveyor msq tm plus is a fast scanning single quadrupole lc-ms system used primarily in pharmaceutical laboratories as a uhplc detector, providing chromatographers the ability to run routine hplc applications more efficiently with real-time mass confirmation. these products utilize our comprehensive line of hplc columns, including hypersil tm gold, hypurity tm and aquasil columns. in january 2007, we acquired spectronex, a european-based supplier of mass spectrometry, chromatography and surface science instrumentation, as well as flux instruments, a manufacturer of high performance liquid chromatography pumps. the flux acquisition provided the pump for the new accela uhplc as well as a unique design platform for future hplc development. beyond life sciences markets, our chemical analysis instrumentation, including our gas chromatography, elemental analysis and molecular spectroscopy instrumentation, uses various separation and optical spectroscopy techniques to determine the elemental and molecular composition of a wide range of complex liquids and solids. gas chromatography . gas chromatography is a separation technique used to analyze complex samples in the form of gases. thermo fisher's high performance and reliable line of gas chromatographs (gcs) includes our trace gc ultra, a versatile laboratory gc with a full range of detectors, injectors, and valve systems; our focus gc, which is a single-channel gc; our trace gcxgc for analysis of target compounds in complex matrices; and autosamplers, including our triplus tm autosampler, that provide a robotic sampling solution to a gc laboratory. our gc offering is also incorporated into our gc mass spectrometry (gc-ms) product line, which pairs a mass spectrometer detector with a gc front end. our offering includes the dsq tm ii, a gc-ms product based on the platform of thermo fisher's dsq and polarisq gc-ms systems. the dsq ii incorporates the new dynamax xr ion detection system and the durabrite tm ion source. the polarisq ion trap msn offers affordable tandem mass spectrometry at the sensitivity of gc-specific detectors. financial statement index 6 table of contents elemental analysis. thermo fisher also offers a line of elemental analysis instrumentation used to analyze elements in liquid and solid samples. our range of combustion analyzer products, including our m &amp; series atomic absorption (aa) systems, the icap 6000 series benchtop inductively coupled plasma (icp) spectrometers, and x series 2 and element2 icp mass spectrometry (icp-ms) systems are used for elemental analysis of liquid samples. environmental, geochemical and clinical/toxicology laboratories often utilize these techniques, as well as many other industrial laboratories. in particular, our award winning icap 6000 series icp spectrometer, sold into growth markets such as china, environmental protection and materials and chemicals, is used in applications that support new regulations (such as the european waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive and the european union directive on restriction of certain hazardous substances (rohs)). thermo fisher also provides a full range of instrumentation for elemental analysis of solids, using both x-ray fluorescence and optical emission (oe) techniques. our arc spark product line based on oe spectrometry is ideal for use in process/quality control for the direct, elemental analysis of solid metals. products include the arl quantris and arl quantodesk ccd-based metals analyzers, arl 3460 and arl 4460 oe spectrometers that can be fully automated for unattended operation. our benchtop and standalone x-ray fluorescence (wdxrf/edxrf) systems for analysis of conductive or non-conductive solids and liquids are used in many industrial and research laboratories, for monitoring of a few elements in oils, polymers, cement or quarry materials to the full analysis of glasses, metals, ores, refractories and geological materials. additionally our uniquant software package makes it possible to analyze totally unknown samples in any form without the need for certified standards. our x-ray diffraction (xrd) equipment allows analysis of phases or compounds in crystalline materials. both xrf and xrd techniques are integrated into our unique arl 9900 x-ray workstation to provide total analysis capabilities to the cement, metals and mining industries. molecular spectroscopy . thermo fisher is also a leader in analytical instrumentation involving spectroscopic analysis of molecular structures. the new nicolet i10 series fourier transform infrared (ft-ir) and nicolet 700 series research grade ft-ir systems provide a complete analytical offering in ft-ir spectroscopy and microscopy, from routine qa/qc applications to advanced research work across many industries including polymer, pharmaceutical and forensic. we are also a leader in the raman and near infrared markets with our new dxr raman series offering research capabilities to the routine-user. in 2007, thermo fisher expanded its line of visible and ultraviolet visible (uv-vis) spectrophotometers and microanalysis products with the acquisition of nanodrop technologies, inc., a u.s.-based supplier of micro-uv-vis spectrophotometry and fluorescence scientific instruments. these products are used in life science, pharmaceutical and material science analysis. customers for thermo fisher's chemical analysis instrumentation include environmental, pharmaceutical, polymer, petrochemical, food, semiconductor, energy, coatings, geological, steel and basic materials producers who frequently use these instruments for quality assurance and quality control applications, primarily in a laboratory. services. we have an extensive service network to support our installed base of instruments across the globe. in addition, we provide a broad range of services, including multi-vendor laboratory instrument services, such as instrument qualifications; preventive and corrective maintenance; validation, regulatory compliance and metrology; as well as instrument/equipment asset management services with solutions that deliver instrument and equipment maintenance management, physical inventory tracking and enterprise-wide maintenance reporting to help customers improve the cost/performance of their instrumentation, equipment and facilities. biosciences our broad range of biosciences products and services includes fine and high-purity chemistry products; proprietary protein analysis; rna interference (rnai); pcr and qpcr reagents and related products; high content screening (hcs) and analysis (hca); nucleic acid synthesis reagents; molecular biology reagents; cell-culture products and sterile liquid-handling systems. these products are used across the general chemistry and life sciences arenas primarily for scientific research and drug discovery, as well as biopharmaceutical research and production. our biosciences products are sold under proprietary product names such as acros organics tm , maybridge tm , hyclone tm , pierce tm , dharmacon tm and abgene tm . financial statement index 7 table of contents global chemicals our global chemicals products provide solutions for chemistry-based applications to scientists involved in analysis, research and development, and manufacturing. we offer reliable, industry leading products and services through internal expertise and through partnerships with leading providers of chemical technology. we deliver high quality, customer-focused, optimized products and solutions through our extensive global distribution network. our broad product portfolio includes acros organics chemicals, which are used in basic research applications to synthesize new and interesting materials. these products are supplied in pre-pack and semi-bulk quantities and are used across all types of chemistry. our fisher chemical tm products help scientists purify, extract, separate, identify and/or manufacture products. these products are used across a range of industries, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology, electronic, and environmental. our fisher bioreagents tm products are used in many different laboratory applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis, to help scientists understand functions within living organisms. we also provide bulk sizes of our various products when customers scale-up from research to development. the primary markets served are pharmaceutical, life sciences and high technology. life science research (lsr) our life science research products provide innovative technologies and services globally for genomics and proteomics applications. we serve the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries as well as diagnostics companies, clinical laboratories, colleges and universities, government and industrial customers. our offering includes a wide range of proprietary protein-research and cell-culture products; nucleic-acid technologies; reagents for high-content cellular screening; reliable, high-quality rna oligonucleotides; small-interfering rna and related rna-interference products; and plastic consumables. our genomics offering includes products and services which use nucleic acids to modulate gene expression or to measure changes in the cellular levels of specific nucleic acids. we provide synthesis reagents such as phosphoramidites to manufacturers of research and large scale synthetic nucleic acids and supply other molecular biology reagents to life science research, agricultural, clinical and diagnostic providers. scientists use our pcr and qpcr reagents and pcr reaction plates and sealing products, sold under the abgene name, to amplify and measure nucleic acids with high precision and sensitivity, enabling them to gain a better understanding of the control mechanisms inside a cell. used in the study of cancer, metabolic diseases, in epidemiological studies and in agriculture research, our products enable scientists to shorten the drug development process. our rna products and services, sold under the dharmacon name, are used by scientists conducting basic research to understand the function of genes and their role in biological processes and human disease. they are also used in drug discovery to identify and validate drug targets. rna interference products are an exciting class of emerging therapeutic compounds. we provide technologies used in the development of potential rnai-based therapeutics. our proteomics products, sold under the pierce, bioimage tm and cellomics tm names, enable the effective and efficient study of the biology of proteins, and offer unique cell-based assays and services for high-content pathway analysis. scientists use our pierce reagents and kits for protein purification , protein detection and quantitation , protein sample preparation , protein labeling , protein interaction , and related studies, providing new capabilities and sensitive and accurate results more efficiently. we also provide proteomics products to manufacturers for inclusion in products sold for research or industrial uses. cellomics hcs reagent kits and bioimage assays are powerful tools for cell-based screening and analysis of specific molecular targets and biological parameters. bioprocess production our bioprocess production offerings include cell-culture and bioprocessing products used in the production of animal and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, skin replacement and protein-based drugs. the product line is used in research and academic markets for cellular interaction studies, toxicity testing, antiviral, and anticancer studies. our financial statement index 8 table of contents hyclone product offering includes leading cell-culture products (sera, classical media, serum-free and protein-free media, and process liquids) and bioprocessing systems for life science research and protein-based drug production. the line includes flexible, single-use bioprocess container tm (bpc tm ) systems, which are sterile, disposable bags specifically designed for transporting, mixing, dispensing, and storing sterile liquids and powders. the hyclone single-use bioreactor (sub) portfolio offers a single-use alternative to conventional stirred tank bioreactors currently used in animal cell culture. the sub emulates the scalability and operating parameters of the conventional stirred tank bioreactors, yet is disposable. under the tc tech tm name, we also provide sterile fluid-handling bags used to transfer, transport and store bioprocess liquids in the biopharmaceutical manufacturing process as well as tubing, fittings, connectors and flexible single-use containers specifically qualified for use in bioscience applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. products, including cell-culture media, sera, process liquids and reagents, as well as single-use bioprocess container systems, are provided in a variety of sizes ranging from small volumes up to tens of thousands of liters of specialized products in large vessels for full-scale production. microbiology our microbiology offerings include high-quality microbiology laboratory products, including dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our microbiology products are sold under the oxoid tm and remel tm specialty brands. our products focus on aiding customers in the diagnosis of infectious disease, implementing effective infection control programs or in detecting microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. these products are used by microbiologists worldwide to grow and identify bacteria and to detect viruses and parasites. within the clinical field, these products are used to facilitate a rapid and accurate diagnosis of infectious disease, to determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy and to aid in the implementation of infection control programs. key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference laboratories, clinics and physician offices. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments, raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination. industrial customers are comprised of quality control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech companies. integrative technologies our integrative technologies offerings provide integrated solutions for customers in regulated and unregulated industries such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, petrochemicals, chemicals, and food and beverage utilizing our broad capabilities in laboratory equipment, instrumentation, consumables, reagents and software. our products include laboratory information management systems (lims), chromatography data systems (cds), database analytical tools, automation systems, microplate instrumentation and automated cellular imaging systems. to support our global installations, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our large global services network. informatics thermo fisher develops and provides lims solutions that provide application-specific, purpose-built functionality in software targeted for certain industries. these industries include pharmaceutical, petrochemical, chemical, food and beverage, metals and mining, environmental and water/wastewater, as well as government and academia. thermo fisher is a leader in developing commercial-off-the-shelf (cots) solutions designed for specific industry applications. providing basic requirements as standard functionality reduces risk for our customers and eases implementation, validation and training, while lowering total cost of ownership. more recently, we have focused our design and development on open standards. financial statement index 9 table of contents moving to an open, service-oriented computing architecture based on microsoft .net creates more interoperability so our systems can enable end-to-end process workflows. our flagship lims, called samplemanager, moved to the .net platform, incorporated service-oriented architecture, enhanced web interfacing, and added support for the microsoft sql server 2005 database in addition to oracle's database option. our darwin tm lims is also based on .net. other products within the portfolio will be moved to .net, migrating away from proprietary programming languages while continuing to support existing customers' use of such programming. our portfolio includes samplemanager tm lims, an enterprise solution used in laboratories at leading companies in the pharmaceutical, oil and gas, environmental, chemical and food and beverage industries; watson tm lims, for pharmaceutical bioanalytical laboratories; galileo tm lims, designed specifically for adme and in-vitro testing in early drug discovery and development; nautilus tm lims, used in a range of industrial applications and increasingly by biotechnology laboratories because of its configurability, patented workflows and plate-handling capabilities; and darwin lims for pharmaceutical manufacturing r&amp;d and qa/qc. in addition, we market the atlas cds tm , a multi-industry enterprise-class system that is tightly integrated with our lims solutions for greater accuracy and consistent reporting of shared data, as well as increased productivity. we also provide a global services network of experienced consultants who provide a broad range of services focused on the successful implementation of our customers' projects. these services include project planning, management of user workshops, defining business requirements, milestone delivery, systems integration, workflow modeling and validation consultancy. laboratory automation solutions thermo fisher is a leading innovator of automation systems that provide solutions for the drug discovery market. with core competencies in integration, applications and innovation, we work closely with customers to develop both turnkey products and tailored systems for genomic/proteomic, biochemical/cell based assays and drug discovery applications. our key technologies include automated storage, integration platforms, robotics and software. advanced automated storage systems offer both low- and high-volume capacities with full environmental control. our integration platforms range from stand-alone plate stackers and movers to highly flexible robotic solutions that incorporate advanced analytical equipment and software for experiment design, control and analysis. precise and reliable motion control is achieved through state-of-the-art robotics that improve throughput and walk-away time. the company's software platforms schedule and control all robotics and third-party instrumentation. these software platforms integrate with lims and other informatics systems to enable efficient workflow and data management. our automated platforms incorporate all instrument core functions such as readers, imagers, liquid handlers, bulk dispensers, incubators, microplate stackers, and automated storage products. cellular imaging and analysis thermo fisher is a leading provider of complete systems for high-content screening (hcs) and analysis (hca) used by drug discovery and systems-biology researchers. our cellomics tm platform includes automated imaging instrumentation (arrayscan tm v tm hcs reader and the cellworx tm high content cell analysis system), bioapplication image analysis software and high content informatics (hci tm ), fully integrated to improve the quality and productivity of cell-based assays. our proprietary platforms are in use at multiple sites within the top 15 pharmaceutical companies, as well as at leading biotechnology companies and academic centers throughout the world. these products enable customers to develop new and effective therapies to treat, cure and prevent diseases and are utilized by scientists in drug discovery companies and basic research institutions to look at how drug candidates and targets of interest affect live cells. for drug discovery companies, these experiments enable scientists to determine the best drug candidates and to ultimately shorten the drug discovery process. for basic research scientists, these experiments enable scientists to explore all aspects of cell biology in a fast, quantitative fashion. these technologies are used in a range of drug discovery and in therapeutic areas such as neurobiology, toxicology, cancer biology and cell biology. financial statement index 10 table of contents microplate instruments thermo fisher offers a wide variety of different microplate instruments for drug discovery, assay development, elisa and applied testing markets. our portfolio includes different microplate detection, bulk reagent dispensing, magnetic particle and microplate washer and incubation instruments. the wide range of microplate detection systems include the multiskan tm photometers, the fluoroskan tm fluorometers, and the luminoskan tm luminometer. the varioskan flash tm and appliskan tm multimode readers offer high performance for the most reliable assay data. the varioskan flash tm spectral scanning multimode reader is designed for analyzing and optimization of assays, such as binding assays, admetox, molecular biology assays, enzyme kinetic studies, ion-channel and cell signaling assays. our multidrop combi tm is a leading bulk reagent dispenser offering superior levels of flexibility and performance to meet the requirements of reagent dispensing in pharmaceutical and biotechnology laboratories. our kingfisher tm magnetic particle processors use a patented method to purify proteins, nucleic acids and cells in a convenient, rapid and reproducible manner. the kingfisher tm system consists of instruments, specially designed plastics and software to provide a total purification solution for customer applications. diagnostics our diagnostics products and services are used by the diagnostics community, including healthcare laboratories in hospitals, academic and research institutes, to prepare and analyze patient samples such as blood, urine, body fluids or tissue sections, to detect and diagnose diseases, such as cancer. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostics reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology. many of these products are sold under their industry-recognized brand names such as: cedia tm , dri tm , casco tm , mas tm , qms tm and duke scientific tm . in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays, including those for newer drugs such as oxycodone, heroin metabolite and buprenorphine. we also offer a complete line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry and automation systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis. in other analytical laboratory fields, our reagents and automated photometric analyzers are used for colorimetric and enzymatic analysis and quality control in food and beverage, wine and pharmaceutical production. in addition to our own sales channels, our clinical chemistry and automation systems are distributed by some of the leading diagnostic manufacturers, such as siemens medical solutions diagnostics and ortho-clinical diagnostics (ocd). anatomical pathology we provide a broad portfolio of products for use primarily in immunochemistry, histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include consumables for specimen collection, tissue processing, embedding and staining, such as reagents, stains, slides, cover glass, microarray substrates, detection kits and antibodies. we also provide a range of instruments including lab vision 360, an autostaining immunohistochemistry slide staining system; and the hms760x, a robot stainer used in slide staining of histology and cytological specimens; along with other equipment such as tissue processors for preparation of tissue samples; microtomes and cryostats for sectioning of processed tissues; financial statement index 11 table of contents embedding centers, slide stainers to highlight abnormal cells for microscopic examination and diagnosis; coverslippers, such as the microm ctm6, which places glass slipcovers on slides at a high capacity of approximately 450 slides per hour; and cassette and slide labelers for identifying specimens. the shandon cytospin tm 4 cytocentrifuge uses low-speed centrifugation technology to concentrate and deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. the shandon excelsior tm provides a fully automatic solution for tissue processing and reagent storage/handling. for efficient handling and accurate identification of histology and cytology specimens, we offer a comprehensive line of cassette and slide labelers, including the shandon laser microwriter tm developed specifically for anatomical pathology. the laser microwriter prints 1d and 2d barcodes, text, logos and graphics in 26 different fonts at a speed of 1 to 2 seconds per slide and is designed to handle high-volume workloads in clinical or research laboratories. other histology products include the shandon finesse tm + line of microtomes for paraffin or resin sectioning, the shandon cryotome tm series of cryostats for frozen sections and the shandon varistain tm line of slide stainers for cell morphology highlights. slide/specialty glass thermo fisher manufactures flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics and scientific communities. other diagnostics we also provide diagnostic testing services for certain neurological, renal and endocrine disorders to physicians, hospital laboratories and reference laboratories under our athena diagnostics brand. environmental instruments our environmental analysis instrumentation offers innovative technologies for complying with government regulations and industry safety standards, or responding to a hazardous material situation, including air and water quality monitoring, gas and particulate detection, and radiation detection and analysis. our instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation used to help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, worker safety and security. key end markets include fossil fuel and nuclear-powered electric generation facilities, federal and state agencies such as the environmental protection agency (epa), first responders such as the new york police department, national laboratories such as los alamos, general commercial and academic laboratories, transportation security for sites such as ports and airports, and other industrial markets such as pulp and paper and petrochemical. our instrumentation is used in three primary applications: air quality monitoring and gas detection, water quality and aqueous solutions analysis, and radiation measurement and protection. air quality monitoring and gas detection we are a leader in air quality instruments for ambient air and continuous emissions monitoring. primary markets and customers include environmental regulatory agencies, emissions generating industries such as power generation and pulp and paper, first responders and industrial customers with occupational safety and health administration-related gas detection requirements. our instruments employ a variety of leading analytical techniques, such as chemiluminescence, which uses the light emission from chemical reactions to detect common air pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide at the parts-per-trillion level. the iseries tm family of analyzers uses various optical detection technologies to monitor parts-per-billion levels of regulated pollutants, such as ground level ozone and sulfur dioxide. the teom tm series of continuous particulate monitors utilizes a patented measurement technology to detect airborne particulate matter with high sensitivity in a brief time period. this monitoring capability allows the u.s. epa and worldwide monitoring networks to provide the public with web-based access to the concentration levels of the particulate matter of most concern to people susceptible to respiratory conditions (such as the elderly and young children). further, state and federal environmental agencies, as well as environmental compliance officers at facilities that release emissions into the air, use our stack gas monitoring systems to financial statement index 12 table of contents ensure that governmentally mandated standards are being met. the introduction of our mercury freedom tm system for the continuous monitoring of total gaseous mercury emissions from coal fired power plants enables the u.s. power generation industry to monitor the measurement of mercury. our industrial hygiene products measure toxic gases such as carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide, and hazardous chemicals such as benzene. the instruments range from handheld monitors used at hazardous waste sites for remediation activities, to general-purpose portable products for personnel-exposure monitoring, to sophisticated fixed systems in industrial facilities for early warning of unsafe combustible and toxic gas concentrations. in addition to these core applications, our product portfolio includes particulate monitoring instruments and leak-detection monitors. water quality and aqueous solutions analysis our water analysis products are recognized as high-quality meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity and dissolved oxygen. marketed under the orion tm and eutech tm product names, our products are sold across a broad range of industries for a variety of laboratory, field and process applications. based on electrochemical sensing technology, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products is critical. primary applications include quality assurance, environmental testing and regulatory compliance in end markets such as general laboratories, life science, water and wastewater, food and beverage, chemical, pharmaceutical and power generation. radiation measurement and protection our radiation measurement and protection instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical and security applications. for example, power- generation facilities distribute our mark ii tm electronic pocket calculator-sized personal dosimeters to employees who work in areas that may expose them to radiation to capture the legal dose of record to which they are exposed on a daily basis. in addition, our customers use contamination monitors, such as our pcm2 tm , in at-risk locations around their facilities to monitor radiation. a variety of our detectors are used to monitor radiation levels and dosage using gross gamma detection technologies. our product portfolio includes handheld survey meters and vehicle and pedestrian portals used to stop illicit transport of radioactive material. environmental and contamination monitors are used by nuclear power plants to ensure worker safety. our security instruments and systems include a comprehensive range of stationary and portable instruments used for chemical and radiation detection. these instruments are based upon analytical technologies used in our core markets that we have refined for the specific needs of the security market, including key customers like the department of homeland security, the department of defense, the department of energy and first responders. our instruments, including the new handheld radeye tm personal radiation detector (prd) and packeye tm backpack style device for discreet, rapid detection of gamma-emitting radioactive sources in large areas, are used for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts at airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat locations, as well as at major events such as the olympics. for example, thermo fisher provides the latest generation of radiation detection systems, known as advanced spectroscopic portals (asps), to the u.s. department of homeland security's domestic nuclear detection office (dndo). deployment of these systems at port and border locations globally is designed to detect and deter the importation of illicit nuclear devices or radiological materials. the asps are designed to allow customs and other agencies to instantly detect and identify sources of radiation to a specific energy fingerprint, thus increasing the probability of deterring a threat, without a slowdown in commerce. process instruments our process instruments products include online instrumentation solutions and services that provide regulatory inspection; quality control; package integrity; process measurements; precise temperature control; physical, elemental and compositional analysis; surface and thickness measurements; remote communications; and flow and blend optimization. we serve a wide variety of global industries including oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, consumer products, power generation, metal, cement, minerals and mining, semiconductor and polymer. our products are typically used in mission-critical manufacturing applications that require high levels of reliability and robustness. our process instruments include six principal product lines: compliance testing, material characterization, materials and minerals, portable elemental analysis, process systems, and weighing and inspection. financial statement index 13 table of contents compliance testing through our compliance testing product lines we provide simulation and verification equipment for electronic components and systems under the keytek brand based on pulsed emi (electromagnetic interference) technology. this business provides electronic components and systems-testing solutions for original equipment manufacturers (oems) and independent testing labs. our products and solutions are capable of testing emc (electromagnetic compatibility) and esd (electrostatic discharge) at the systems and discrete package levels to assist our customers in complying with various industry standards. in 2007, we acquired oryx instruments, a manufacturer of esd, latch-up and tlp (transmission line pulse) test systems for the worldwide semiconductor market. this acquisition enhanced our range of test systems. material characterization our materials characterization product lines include instruments that help our customers analyze materials for viscosity, surface tension and thermal properties. for instance, our thermo scientific haake-mars tm and thermo scientific haake-polylab tm products accurately and flexibly measure a wide range of rheological properties in the lab and in process applications. these measurement platforms use open standards and have the ability to connect to a range of sensors and systems. our extruders and blenders meet r&amp;d, small-scale production, quality control and pharmaceutical needs. materials and minerals our materials and minerals product line includes online bulk material analysis systems, such as the thermo scientific cb omni tm and thermo scientific cqm tm products for the coal, cement, minerals and other bulk material handling markets. these products employ proprietary, ultrahigh-speed, non-invasive measurement technologies that use neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze, in real time, the physical and chemical properties of raw material streams. this eliminates the need for off-line sampling, and enables real-time online optimization, for instance, allowing the customer to optimally blend raw materials to control sulfur and ash in coal fired utilities. our gauging products are used online to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as metal strip, plastics, foil, rubber, glass, paper and other web-type products. our gauging line uses ionizing and non-ionizing technologies, including our proprietary non-ionizing technology called fsir tm , to perform high-speed, real-time, non-invasive measurements. we also provide process control instruments that monitor nuclear flux inside a reactor helping our nuclear power customers operate their plants in a safe and optimal manner. portable elemental analysis our line of products also include the thermo scientific niton portable xrf analyzers. these portable elemental analyzers are state-of-the-art handheld instruments offering high-performance analysis of metal alloys for positive material identification, scrap metal recycling, quality assurance/quality control (qa/qc) and precious metals analysis, as well as analysis of soils and sediments, environmental monitoring, lead screening in consumer products, lead in paint assessment, geochemical mapping and coatings/plating analysis. the niton xl3 product platform is designed for the rapid on-site testing of metals for numerous industrial applications, including mining, coatings, precious metals and powder samples. process systems our process systems products help oil and gas, refining, steel and other customers optimize their processes. these instruments provide measurements that help improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance and increase worker safety. for instance, our gas flow computers support custody transfer applications in the production and transmission of natural gas; our thermo scientific krilpro tm nuclear interface level gauge is used in extremely harsh coker applications for petroleum refining; financial statement index 14 table of contents our thermo scientific mola tm analyzer helps our customers measure moisture in extreme applications like coke used in metal foundries, and our thermo scientific prima tm line of process mass spectrometers helps our customers detect minute constituents in process gases. these systems provide real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. our thermo scientific sola tm line of products, based on pulsed uv fluorescence technology, is an online sulfur analyzer used by refiners to bring clean fuels to consumers. we have extended the applications for sola to include online sulfur detection in the petrochemical environment, including flare gas composition and catalyst protection. weighing and inspection our weighing and inspection products serve the food and beverage, pharmaceutical packaging and bulk material handling industries. for the food and beverage and pharmaceutical markets, we provide solutions to help our customers attain safety and quality standards. based on a variety of technologies, such as x-ray imaging and ultratrace chemical detection, our products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts. for example, our thermo scientific apex tm line of metal detectors uses non-invasive, high-speed, flux technology to inspect packaged products; our thermo scientific versaweigh line of checkweighers is used to weigh packages on high-speed packaging lines; our thermo scientific inscan tm line uses x-ray imaging to enable our customers to inspect canned or bottled beverages at very high speeds; and the thermo scientific pureaqua tm line provides online-sniffing technology to inspect recycled bottles for traces of contaminants before refilling. we also provide bulk material handling products such as belt scales, flow meters, safety switches and detectors to enable solids-flow-monitoring, level measurements, personnel safety, and spillage prevention for a wide variety of processing applications in the food, minerals, coal, cement and other bulk solids handling markets. laboratory products and services segment through our laboratory products and services segment, we offer a combination of products and services that allows our customers to engage in their core business functions of research, development, manufacturing, clinical diagnosis and drug discovery more accurately, rapidly and cost effectively. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries. this segment has six principal product groupings laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, research market, healthcare market, safety market and biopharma services and provides products and integrated solutions for various scientific challenges that support many facets of life science research, clinical diagnosis and workplace safety. specifically, our laboratory equipment products consist primarily of sample preparation, controlled environment storage and handling equipment as well as laboratory workstations; our laboratory consumables include consumables, tubes and containers for sample preparation, analysis and sample storage. our research market offers a wide variety of proprietary and third-party chemicals, instruments and apparatus, liquid handling pumps and devices, capital equipment and consumables; our healthcare market offers proprietary and third-party analytical equipment, diagnostic tools and reagents and consumables; our safety market offers proprietary and third-party workplace and first responder equipment, protective gear and apparel; and our biopharma services offerings include packaging, warehousing and distribution services, labeling, pharmaceutical and biospecimen storage, and analytical laboratory services primarily in the area of drug discovery and pharmaceutical clinical trials. in the research market, the fisher scientific catalog has been published for nearly 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. in the research, healthcare and safety markets, we publish more than 3 million copies of our various catalogs each year in eight different languages. our e-commerce product references are showcased by our website, www.fishersci.com , which is a leading e-commerce site supporting the scientific research community. the website contains product content for more than 320,000 products. we maintain an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and temperature controlled storage capacity, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our financial statement index 15 table of contents dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities. we deliver our products through third-party carriers and our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles. third-party carriers include united parcel service (ups), federal express, dhl and other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products and integrated solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development, and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance the quality of life. we provide a broad range of equipment that is used for the preparation and preservation of chemical and biological samples, primarily for pharmaceutical, academic, clinical and government customers. products include incubators that are used in biological experiments to allow growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions of temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. these are sold under various product line names including forma tm and heraeus tm . we also offer a wide range of centrifuges, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our microcentrifuges are primarily used for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory, our general use benchtop centrifuges are suitable for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine, and our floor models are used for large volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. our centrifuges are sold under various product line names including sorvall tm , iec tm and heraeus. we have a broad range of water purification products and technologies that serve the pharmaceutical, academic, industrial research and clinical testing markets. the different technologies (distillation, reverse osmosis, deionization, ultrafiltration, membrane filtration and the use of uv) allow for the systems to accept various incoming water qualities from around the world and deliver a range of water qualities for a wide variety of laboratory applications. these applications range from type ii water typically used to feed water baths or glassware washers to distilled water to type i (extremely high-purity water), for use in hydrating reagents and buffers. in addition, for the most sensitive techniques requiring pyrogen-free, free of trace metals or low total organic carbon (toc) we offer integrated specialty treatments. these are sold under the product line name of barnstead tm . our shakers, stirrers and stirring hotplates, water baths and dry blocks, ovens, furnaces, heating mantles, tapes, mats and temperature monitoring devices, including thermometers, are offered in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry and quality control applications where temperature uniformity and control are critical. these are sold under various product line names including barnstead, precision tm , heraeus, blue m tm and variomag tm . we offer thermal cyclers for the amplification of nucleic acids by polymerase chain reaction (pcr) or reverse transcriptase-pcr (rt-pcr). these are sold under the product line name of hybaid tm . our centrifugal vacuum concentrators assist researchers in evaporating organic solvents, acids and buffers from their samples and have a wide range of applications in the preparation of deoxyribonucleic acid (dna), oligomers, plasmid preparation and the purification of pharmaceutical compounds. our freeze dryers are used to lyophilize drugs, plants or tissues for long-term room temperature or refrigerated storage often retaining biological activity and the original cellular structure upon re-hydration. these products are sold under the savant tm and jouan tm product line names. financial statement index 16 table of contents we are leaders in cold temperature storage equipment, ranging from laboratory refrigerators and freezers to ultralow temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks, which are used primarily for storing samples in a cold environment to protect from degradation. these systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature conditions. these products are sold under various product line names including forma, revco tm , harris tm , jewett tm , barnstead, heraeus and jouan. our biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. equipped with filtered air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, biological safety cabinets can be used for tissue culture, ivf, infectious samples, forensic analysis or bioterrorism research. these products are sold under various product line names including forma and heraeus. we provide a range of steam sterilizers for sterilizing biological samples and laboratory tools that are primarily used by pharmaceutical, clinical and academic customers. these products are sold under the forma product line name. through our control technologies product line we are a leading manufacturer of precision temperature control products for global industrial and laboratory markets. the temperature-control product line includes the neslab tm and haake tm lines of heated/refrigerated circulating baths, immersion coolers and re-circulating chillers. customers use these products to control highly critical manufacturing processes, such as semiconductor manufacturing operations or pharmaceutical-grade extrusion lines. we also manufacture private label and oem versions of certain of our product lines. we are a major supplier of laboratory workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory renovation. our product offerings include steel, wood and plastic laminate casework systems, adaptable furniture systems, chemical ventilation fume hoods and chemical storage cabinets and various other laboratory fixtures and accessories. laboratory workstation products are sold under the names of fisher hamilton tm , horizon tm , concept tm , safeaire tm and pioneer tm . we supply internet, phone and field technical support and service for laboratory equipment including installation, maintenance, repair and training on a worldwide basis via a network of internal phone support technicians and field-based service technicians as well as third-party service providers. laboratory consumables we manufacture and sell glass and plastics consumables and certain related equipment to entities conducting scientific research, including drug discovery and drug development, quality and process control, clinical and basic research and development. we are a leading supplier of sample tubes, containers and vessels, in a variety of plastics and glass and in a wide range of volumes for all types of life science, analytical and clinical analysis. included in this offering are microwell plates ranging from a single well to 1,536 wells for applications ranging from tissue culture to primary and secondary screening in drug discovery. the geometry of the wells, the type of plastic resin, the surface treatments or filtration membrane in the devices vary to serve a number of applications for maximizing cell growth, sample concentration within the well or reduce background fluorescence or non-specific binding. these products are sold under various brand names including nalgene tm , nunc tm , mbp tm , capitol vial tm and samco tm . accurate measurement and dispensing of samples and reagents is critical in a variety of industrial, academic, government, and clinical laboratories. we have a wide variety of single and multiple channel pipetting tools from manual to highly automated, covering a wide volume range. the ergonomics of these devices are important to the comfort of researchers handling numerous samples and pipetting steps on a daily basis. due to sample cross-contamination concerns, the tips of the pipettes are disposable and a separate tip is used for each sample. these products are sold under various brands and product line names including finnpipette tm , matrix tm , mbp and qsp tm . financial statement index 17 table of contents we have tubes specific to centrifugation in various sizes to fit the volume and centrifugal speed requirements of the sample. in addition, we are the leaders in sample storage vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, offering specific products for low protein binding (cryobank tm ) and low dna binding (bank it tm ). these products are sold under various brands including nalgene, nunc and matrix. we are the leading provider of tissue culture filtration and growth vessels. our products are used by researchers for growth of tissue culture and can be scaled up to biomanufacturing of vaccines or monoclonal antibodies using cell factory products. the sterility of samples and growth media is critical to the viability of the cells. these products are sold under various brands including nalgene and nunc. research market our research market offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to allow our customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in laboratory research and development throughout the world. our customers represent all industries requiring any level of laboratory research, including but not limited to the pharmaceutical, biotech, food and agriculture, government, academic and manufacturing industries. our products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. we offer a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, that are manufactured by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and that are manufactured by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our biennial catalog consists of more than 40,000 products. beyond our catalog, we offer our customers access to more than 650,000 products. our e-commerce website, www.fishersci.com, has been an industry-leading online ordering and reference tool since its inception in the 1990s. in addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our managed services team. services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery, coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core research activities. healthcare market our healthcare market offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic and cardiac risk management solutions, along with blood collection devices, consumable vials and transportation devices, as well as an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing devices for drugs-of-abuse testing and diagnosis and monitoring of cancer, endocrine function and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, nervous system, respiratory and sexually transmitted diseases. the healthcare market core product offering also includes high-end diagnostic instruments and equipment together with the reagents used in those instruments and equipment to perform diagnostic tests. sales in the healthcare market are fueled by the administration and evaluation of diagnostic tests. we believe that the aging population, as well as the increased demand for the development of new specialty diagnostic tests, will result in increased market growth. in addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our managed services team. services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel that manage inventory, provide on-site customer service, and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core responsibilities. financial statement index 18 table of contents safety market through our safety market we supply safety-related products to various industries including laboratory research, industrial manufacturing, healthcare, universities, food/agriculture, environmental and petrochemical as well as government and municipal agencies, fire departments and military units. products offered to these markets include: cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies; personal protective equipment such as respirators, clothing, gloves, hardhats, hearing protection and eyewear; fall protection harnesses and restraints; self-contained breathing apparatus; specialized firefighting and military equipment and supplies; environmental monitoring and sampling equipment; and first responder supplies and equipment such as decontamination tents, bio-isolation systems, chemical protective suits and emergency response trailers. we offer products mainly manufactured by third parties as well as those manufactured by thermo fisher. we also provide access to a broad offering of training, equipment servicing and on-site inventory management support through our dedicated safety sales professionals, equipment service employees and on-site customer support teams. our goal is to provide a total solution of products, training and support to our customers. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging, over-encapsulation, multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials, analytical testing, biological-specimen management, as well as specialty pharmaceutical logistics and clinical supply-chain management. thermo fisher's biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biorepository services business stores millions of pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites in the united states and the united kingdom. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. services are offered throughout the world, with operations in the united states, united kingdom, switzerland and singapore. expansion of our activities is under way into india, latin america and china. most services are offered under the fisher clinical services tm , fisher bioservices , lancaster laboratories tm or priority solutions brands. on october 3, 2007, the company's laboratory products and services segment acquired priority solutions international, a leading u.s.-based third-party logistics provider to the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the acquisition broadened the segment's clinical trials management services offerings. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 7,500 sales and service professionals including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with an efficient ordering system, product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment. financial statement index 19 table of contents during 2007, 2006 and 2005, we spent $239 million, $170 million and $153 million, respectively, on research and development, excluding a charge in 2006 of $15 million for in-process research and development at the date of the merger with fisher. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials and the use of derivative instruments, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in both segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth calendar quarter are historically stronger than in the other quarters due to capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2007 and 2006 was as follows: (in millions) 2007 2006 analytical technologies $ 805.0 $ 717.6 laboratory products and services 476.0 365.8 $ 1,281.0 $ 1,083.4 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2007 will be filled during 2008. the increase in backlog in 2007 is principally due to increased demand. financial statement index 20 table of contents government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition general the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. in general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; our broad product offering; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. financial statement index 21 table of contents our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984. our rockford, illinois, facility is subject to a resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) corrective action program administered by the illinois environmental protection agency. we are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site. this site was listed in 1983 on the national priority list under cercla. both new jersey sites are also the subjects of cercla national resources damages claims. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $23 million at december 31, 2007 and were not material prior to the merger with fisher. the liability for environmental matters associated with fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the united states drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, the food and drug administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. financial statement index 22 table of contents number of employees as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 33,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marijn e. dekkers 50 president and chief executive officer (2000) marc n. casper 39 executive vice president (2001) guy broadbent 44 senior vice president (2001) seth h. hoogasian 53 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) alan j. malus 48 senior vice president (2006) alexander g. stachtiaris 43 senior vice president, global business services (2008) stephen g. sheehan 52 senior vice president, human resources (2003) fredric t. walder 50 senior vice president, commercial excellence (2006) peter m. wilver 48 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 48 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. dekkers was appointed chief executive officer in november 2002 and president in july 2000. he was chief operating officer from july 2000 to november 2002. mr. casper was appointed executive vice president in november 2006. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. he was president, life and laboratory sciences from december 2001 to march 2005. he was vice president of thermo from december 2001 to december 2003. mr. broadbent was appointed senior vice president in november 2006. he was president, laboratory equipment from november 2004 to november 2006, and vice president of thermo from january 2001 to november 2004. he was president, spectra-physics division from december 2003 to july 2004 and was president, optical technologies from october 2000 to december 2003. financial statement index 23 table of contents mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. malus was appointed senior vice president in november 2006. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. malus was group president of distribution and services for fisher, where he focused on growing the company's customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. mr. malus joined fisher in 1998 and has served in a variety of management roles. mr. stachtiaris was appointed senior vice president, global business services in february 2008. he was senior vice president of f inance and b usiness o perations for the company's customer channel business from november 2006 to february 2008. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. stachtiaris was vice president of finance and corporate controller for fisher from february 2004 to november 2006. prior to joining fisher, he was the senior vice president of finance for the pharmaceutical distribution business of cardinal health from april 2000 to february 2004. mr. sheehan was appointed senior vice president, human resources in november 2006. he was vice president, human resources from august 2001 to november 2006. mr. walder was appointed senior vice president, customer excellence in may 200 7 . he was senior vice president, commercial excellence from november 2006 to may 2007, president, environmental instruments from april to november 2006, and president, scientific instruments from december 2002 to april 2006. mr. walder joined thermo in 1992 and has served in a variety of management roles. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president from october 2004 to november 2006, and vice president, financial operations from october 2000 to october 2004. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 3. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products in order to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. development of our products requires significant investment; our products and technologies could become uncompetitive or obsolete. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. these activities require us to make significant investments. financial statement index 24 table of contents risk factors (continued) products in our markets undergo rapid and significant technological change because of quickly changing industry standards and the introduction of new products and technologies that make existing products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. the products that we are currently developing, or those we will develop in the future, may not be technologically feasible or accepted by the marketplace, and our products or technologies could become uncompetitive or obsolete. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: finding new markets for our products; developing new applications for our technologies; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; continuing key customer initiatives; expanding our service offerings; strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our breadth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of our business. the company may be unable to integrate successfully the legacy businesses of thermo electron corporation and fisher scientific international inc. and may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the merger involved the combination of two companies which previously operated as independent public companies. the company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations. potential difficulties the company may encounter in the integration process include the following: if we are unable to successfully combine the businesses of thermo and fisher in a manner that permits the company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, such anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected; lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two former companies deciding not to do business with the company; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; financial statement index 25 table of contents risk factors (continued) integrating personnel from diverse corporate cultures while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger; and inability to successfully execute a branding campaign for the combined company. in addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. for example, in september 2004 applied biosystems/mds scientific instruments and related parties brought a lawsuit against us alleging our mass spectrometer systems infringe a patent held by the plaintiffs. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. financial statement index 26 table of contents risk factors (continued) demand for most of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. our results could be impacted if we are unable to realize potential future benefits from new productivity initiatives. we continue to pursue practical process improvement (ppi) programs and other cost saving initiatives at our locations which are designed to further enhance our productivity, efficiency and customer satisfaction. while we anticipate continued benefits from these initiatives, future benefits are expected to be fewer and smaller in size and may be more difficult to achieve. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2008 and beyond, resulting in: reduced demand for some of our products; increased rate of order cancellations or delays; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if any of our security products fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. the products sold by our environmental instruments business include a comprehensive range of fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could pass through the product undetected, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. promising acquisitions financial statement index 27 table of contents risk factors (continued) are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $8.71 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2007. we assess the realizability of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. our growth strategy to acquire new businesses may not be successful and the integration of future acquisitions may be difficult and disruptive to our ongoing operations. we have retained contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold. from 1997 through 2004, we divested over 60 businesses with aggregate annual revenues in excess of $2 billion. as part of these transactions, we retained responsibility for some of the contingent liabilities related to these businesses, such as lawsuits, product liability and environmental claims and potential claims by buyers that representations and warranties we made about the businesses were inaccurate. the resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition; however, we can not be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. in 2007, our international revenues from continuing operations, including export revenues from the united states, accounted for approximately 35% of our total revenues. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect product demand and the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. in addition, reported sales made in non-u.s. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2007, currency translation had a favorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of $241 million due to a weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing financial statement index 28 table of contents risk factors (continued) private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our largest customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory consumables business and our largest customer in the diagnostics business are also significant competitors. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with these customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as ups and federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if ups or another third-party package-delivery provider experiences a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if ups or our other third-party package-delivery providers increase prices, and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies that require us to comply with a wide variety of regulations, including those regarding the manufacture of products, the shipping of our products and environmental matters. some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern the handling, transportation, manufacture, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous substances. some risk of environmental damage is inherent in our operations and the products we manufacture, sell or distribute. this requires us to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the establishment of reserves to address potential environmental costs, and manage environmental risks. we rely heavily on manufacturing operations to produce the products we sell, and our business could be adversely affected by disruptions of our manufacturing operations. financial statement index 29 table of contents risk factors (continued) we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to adjust to rapid changes in the healthcare industry, some of which could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs. these changes include: development of large and sophisticated groups purchasing medical and surgical supplies; wider implementation of managed care; legislative healthcare reform; consolidation of pharmaceutical companies; increased outsourcing of certain activities, including to low-cost offshore locations; and consolidation of distributors of pharmaceutical, medical and surgical supplies. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins, steel and serum. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems at certain of our sites could interfere with our operations. as a part of the effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner: provide quotes, take customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. financial statement index 30 table of contents risk factors (continued) our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.20 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we had the ability to incur an additional $955 million of indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. if we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility include a debt-to-ebitda ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.0 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under one of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments.risk factors 23 financial statement index 3 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) business segments and products we report our business in two segments: analytical technologies and laboratory products and services. for financial information about segments, including domestic and international operations and export sales, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. analytical technologies segment through our analytical technologies segment, we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries. this segment has three primary growth platforms analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics and biosciences and provides a broad range of instruments, software and services, bioscience reagents and diagnostic assays to address various scientific, healthcare, environmental, and process optimization challenges in laboratories, manufacturing and the field. analytical instruments include scientific instruments used in the laboratory to analyze prepared samples, software interpretation tools and laboratory information management systems, environmental instruments, integrated systems, and services used in industrial environments, in the lab, and in the field for continuous environmental monitoring, safety and security applications; and process instruments, integrated systems, measurement solutions, and services used in process environments and in the field to enable real-time process control and optimization and materials analysis. specialty diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare and other laboratories to prepare and analyze patient samples to detect and diagnose diseases. microbiology products include high-quality reagents and diagnostic kits used in the diagnosis of infectious disease or for testing for bacterial contamination to assure the safety and quality of consumer products such as food and pharmaceuticals. biosciences products include leading reagents and consumables used in life science research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical production. analytical instruments scientific instruments our scientific instrumentation and integrated software solutions are used primarily in laboratory and industrial settings and incorporate a broad range of capabilities for organic and inorganic sample analysis. we offer a portfolio of scientific instruments based on a range of techniques , including mass spectrometry (ms), chromatography and optical spectroscopy, which can be combined with a range of accessories, consumables, software, spectral reference databases, services and support to provide a complete solution to the customer. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming gas phase charged ions that are then analyzed according to mass-to-charge rati os. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a fragmentation pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on physical and chemical characteristics specific to each component. optical spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength of light, for example, visible (light), ultraviolet or infra-red. we complement our product technologies with laboratory information management systems (lims) , chromatography data systems (cds) , database analytical tools, automation systems, and a broad portfolio of reagents and consumables from the rest of the company to deliver integrated work flow solutions that improve the quality and productivity of r esearch . financial statement index 4 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used in a variety of regulated and unregulated industries in life sciences applications such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, clinical and food safety, in chemical and materials analysis applications such as environmental, petrochemicals, chemicals, semiconductor, steel and basic materials, and geology, as well as in academic and government research. to support our global installations, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our large global services network. life science mass spectrometry (lsms). the company's life sciences mass spectrometry product line features high performance instrumentation for a wide spectrum of markets and applications. the triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid mass spectrometry (lc/ms/ms) product lines offer tiered portfolios for both qualitative and quantitative analysis across a broad range of markets including pharmaceutical, academic research, clinical research, food safety, environmental and toxicology markets. applications range in complexity from routine compound identification in regulated fields such as food safety and environmental screening, to sophisticated analysis of low-abundance components in complex biological matrices. our triple quadrupole portfolio provides high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. applications for the pharmaceutical industry include the targeted quantitation of drug candidates in discovery absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (adme) studies, and in support of development phase clinical trials where sensitivity, specificity, precision and accuracy are requirements for submission of pharmacokinetic data for regulatory approval. the triple quadrupole portfolio is also used for targeted analysis of pesticides and food contaminants to support regulatory requirements. our ion trap portfolio includes instruments and software for in depth structural analysis of large bio-molecules, such as proteins, to structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. hybrid mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap technology, fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (fticr) and orbitrap technology, providing high resolution and accurate mass capabilities in a single mass spectrometry system. the combination of two powerful capabilities permits sensitive and accurate identification of compounds in complex matrices. our hybrid mass spectrometers are suited for analysis of complex biological problems such as cellular pathway analysis, investigation of protein sequence modifications, biomarker discovery for potential disease markers, evaluation of complex metabolomic systems, and metabolite identification because of their enhanced selectivity capabilities from high resolution and accurate mass. inorganic mass spectrometry (ioms). inorganic ms products are comprised of four product segments: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms), multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc-irms), inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp-ms) and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace-ms). ioms products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications including environmental analysis, materials science, climate research, earth science as well as nuclear safeguard and fuel control. all of our ioms products are based on sophisticated magnetic sector mass spectrometers, which are customized to meet the needs of a broad range of applications. in addition, we supply a range of sample preparation and separation product-lines for mass spectrometry including auto-samplers, liquid and gas chromatography instruments and columns, and multi-plexing systems. financial statement index 5 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) liquid chromatography. liquid chromatography (lc) is a separation technique that analyzes complex sample matrices in liquids. our hplc (high pressure liquid chromatography) systems and uhplc (ultra high pressure liquid chromatography) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity in the analysis of liquid samples. they are sold either in stand-alone configurations or as systems-integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc-ms and lc-ms/ms). our nanohplc systems are typically used to separate components of very small biological samples for further analysis with ion trap or hybrid mass spectrometers. the company also has a fast scanning single quadrupole lc-ms system used primarily in pharmaceutical laboratories, providing chromatograph ers the ability to complete routine lc analysis with real-time mass confirmation. these products utilize our comprehensive line of hplc columns. gas chromatography. gas chromatography (gc) is a separation technique that analyzes complex sample matrices in gases. gc comprises both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc-ms). thermo scientific's gas chromatographs (gcs) include a full range of detectors, injectors, and valve systems for chemical and petrochemical analysis, and its gcxgc product is used for analysis of target compounds in complex matrices. our gc-ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole gc-ms, for routine analysis of pesticide residues in food; a single stage quadrupole ms for qua ntitative product screening of environmental and toxicology samples; and an ion trap ms for analysis of target components in complex matrices. we also offer a wide range of auto samplers that fully automate gc or gc-ms analysis. molecular spectroscopy . thermo fisher's molecular spectroscopy products are divided into four primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ft-ir), raman, near-infrared (nir) and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. all four techniques provide information regarding the structure of molecules and hence provide the means for the identification, verification and quantification of primarily organic materials. the instrumentation comprises interferometric and dispersive spectrometers combined with software that extracts both qualitative and quantitative information from the raw data. the major applications are found in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical and forensic sciences. the instrumentation is used in re search, analytical services and quality control laboratories. near-infrared spectroscopy is used in both laboratory qc and process control applications, making it a technique well-suited for process analytical technology (pat). bulk elemental analysis. thermo fisher provides a full range of instrumentation for elemental analysis of bulk materials such as metals, cement, minerals and petrochemicals using x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd) and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques. our oes product line is ideal for use in process/quality control for the direct, elemental analysis of solid metals. our benchtop and standalone xrf systems for analysis of conductive or non-conductive solids and liquids are used in many industrial and research laboratories, for monitoring of specific elements in oils, polymers, cement or quarry materials to the full analysis of glasses, metals, ores, refractories and geological materials. our xrd equipment allows analysis of phases or compounds in crystalline materials. both xrf and xrd techniques are integrated into one instrument to provide total analysis capabilities to the cement, metals and mining industries. trace elemental analysis. thermo fisher offers a line of elemental analysis instrumentation for the analysis of trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples. our atomic absorption (aa) instruments and inductively coupled plasma (icp) spectrometers are used for trace elemental analysis of liquid samples in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america and support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. financial statement index 6 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) surface analysis . the principle technique of the surface analysis product range is x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (xps). xps provides detailed quantitative information about the chemical composition of solid surfaces and interfaces. the product line features fully integrated instruments, designed for rapid throughput of samples, as well as user configured systems and component options. the extreme surface sensitivity of xps makes it directly applicable to the development of new materials whose surfaces are chemically engineered on the nanometer scale. the application field for xps is wide and varied. xps is commonly used in the semi-conductor, metals, coatings and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis t ool. microanalysis. thermo fisher provides a range of energy-dispersive and wavelength-dispersive x-ray detectors for electron microscope users that transform the electron microscope from an imaging tool into an analytical instrument. these detectors make it possible to rapidly and accurately analyze the elemental distribution of a sample at resolutions down to the nanometer scale. laboratory automation solutions. thermo fisher is a supplier of automation systems that provide solutions for the drug discovery and cell research market. our key technologies include automated storage and incubation, integration platforms, robotics and software. precise and reliable motion control is achieved through state-of-the-art robotics that improve throughput and walk-away time. informatics. thermo fisher develops and provides laboratory information management systems solutions that provide application-specific, purpose-built functionality in software targeted for certain industries. these industries include pharmaceutical, petrochemical, chemical, food and beverage, metals and mining, environmental and water/wastewater, as well as government and academia. thermo fisher is a leader in developing commercial-off-the-shelf solutions designed for specific industry applications. environmental instruments our environmental analysis instrumentation offers innovative technologies that are used for complying with government regulations and industry safety standards, or to analyze, measure or respond to a hazardous material situation. our instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation used to help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, worker safety and security. key end markets include coal, fossil fuel and nuclear-powered electric generation facilities, industrial markets such as pulp and paper and petrochemical, water and wastewater municipalities, federal, state and local agencies, general commercial and academic laboratories, and transportation security for sites such as ports and airports. our instrum entation is used in three primary applications: air quality monitoring and gas detection, water quality testing and monitoring and radiation measurement and protection. air quality monitoring and gas detection. we are a leader in air quality instruments for ambient air and stack gas emissions monitoring. our primary customers and markets include environmental regulatory agencies responsible for providing gaseous and particulate pollutant air quality data and combustion based industrial operations such as power generation complying with governmentally mandated emissions standards. additionally, we manufacture a broad range of portable and stationary particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments used by industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel for worker exposure protection. our gas detection instruments utilize a broad range of optoelectronic technologies to detect criteria pollutants such as nitrogen oxide at the parts-per-trillion level. we offer a comprehensive range of continuous particulate monitors for use in ambient air monitoring networks using technologies such as tapered element oscillation microbalances, beta attenuation and light scattering. we complement our market leading instrumentation with customized continuous emission monitoring systems (cems), offering both hardware and complete solutions along with integration, installation, support, commissioning, certification and training services. financial statement index 7 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) water quality testing and monitoring. our water quality products include high-quality meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key water parameters. our meters, monitors, electrodes and solutions are sold across a broad range of industries. based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used for laboratory, field and process applications wherever the quality of water and water-based products is critical. primary applications include quality control and assurance, environmental testing and regulatory compliance in markets such as water and wastewater, food and beverage, chemical, pharmaceutical, education and power generatio n. radiation measurement and protection. our radiation measurement, protection and security instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical and security applications. in the nuclear power market, our products are used by employees to monitor exposure, detect personal and asset contamination as well as monitor the interior and exterior environment. our industrial applications include metal recycling, x-ray, and neutron generation, while our security applications are focused on scanning suspect cargo, vehicles and people and identifying the source radiation across a wide array of applications globally. process instruments our process instruments products include instrument solutions and services that provide our customers with real-time data that help them improve product quality, increase process efficiency, increase product yield, reduce production downtime, reduce raw material waste and enhance security. our products are typically used in mission-critical manufacturing applications that require high levels of accuracy, reliability and robustness. we serve a wide variety of global industries including oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage consumer products, power generation, metal, cement, minerals and mining, and semiconductor. our major areas of expertise include online elemental analysis, handheld elemental and optical analysis, flat sheet thickness measurement, in-motion weig hing and monitoring, rheological and thermal analysis, contaminant detection in packaged materials and flow, level and density measurement. our process instruments include seven principal product lines: materials and minerals, portable elemental analysis, portable optical analysis, process systems, product inspection, material characterization and compliance testing. materials and minerals. our materials and minerals product line includes online bulk material analysis systems for the coal, cement, minerals and other bulk material handling markets. these products employ ultrahigh-speed, non-invasive measurement technologies that use neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze, in real time, the physical and chemical properties of raw material streams. this eliminates the need for off-line sampling, and enables real-time online optimization, for instance, allowing the customer to optimally blend raw materials to control sulfur and ash in coal fired utilities. our gauging products are used online to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet mater ials, such as metal strip, plastics, foil, rubber, glass, paper and other web-type products. our gauging line uses ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to perform high-speed, real-time, non-invasive measurements. we also provide process control instruments that monitor nuclear flux inside a reactor, helping our nuclear power customers operate their plants in a safe and optimal manner. our bulk weighing and monitoring products such as belt scales, weighbelt feeders, flow meters, safety switches, gauges and detectors enable high speed weighing of bulk materials, solids flow monitoring, level measurements, personnel safety, moisture analysis, and spillage prevention for a wide variety of processing applications in the food, minerals, coal, cement and other bulk solids handling markets. portable elemental analysis. our line of portable xrf elemental analyzers are state-of-the-art handheld instruments offering real time high-performance analysis. the product platform is designed for the rapid on-site testing of metals for numerous industrial applications, including mining, coatings, precious metals and powder samples. our product offering is tailored for specific market applications through a combination of instrument calibrations, x-ray sources and detectors to best match the desired speed and sensitivity of the analysis. the instruments are used for the analysis of metal alloys for positive material identification, scrap metal recycling, quality assurance/quality control (qa/qc) and precious metals analysis, as w ell as analysis of soils and sediments, environmental monitoring, lead screening in consumer products, lead in paint assessment, geochemical mapping and coatings/plating analysis. financial statement index 8 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) portable optical analysis . our line of portable optical analyzers are rugged, handheld spectrometers designed for rapid and precise chemical identification, authentication and screening directly at the point of need. these portable analyzers use vibrational spectroscopy raman, ftir and nir for quick and accurate identification of substances. first responders, law enforcement and military personnel use our analyzers for chemical and explosives identification in critical safety and security situations. in aviation security, particularly at checkpoint screening, our analyzer enables rapid liquid threat screening. other applications include quality control and assurance for pharmaceutical and consumer health raw materials, identification of counterfeit and substandard drugs, and industrial processing, such as plastics and carpet recycling and food and agriculture analysis. process systems. our process systems products help oil and gas, refining, steel and other customers optimize their processes. these instruments provide measurements that help improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance and increase worker safety. for instance, our gas flow computers support custody transfer applications in the production and transmission of natural gas; our nuclear interface level gauge is used in extremely harsh coker applications for petroleum refining; our moisture online analyzer helps our customers measure moisture in extreme applications like coke used in metal foundries, and our line of process mass spectrometers helps our customers detect minute constituents in pr ocess gases. these systems provide real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. our online sulfur analyzer products, based on pulsed uv fluorescence technology, are used by refiners to bring clean fuels to consumers and in the petrochemical environment, including flare gas composition and catalyst protection. product inspection. our product inspection solutions serve the food and beverage, and pharmaceutical packaging industries. for the food and beverage and pharmaceutical markets, we provide solutions to help our customers attain safety and quality standards. based on a variety of technologies, such as x-ray imaging and ultratrace chemical detection, our products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts. for example, our line of metal detectors uses non-invasive, high-speed, magnetic flux technology to inspect packaged products; our line of checkweighers uses load cell technology to weigh packages on high-speed packaging lines; our line of inspection ystems uses x-ray imaging to enable our customers to inspect canned or bottled beverages at very high speeds. material characterization. our material characterization product lines include instruments that help our customers analyze materials for viscosity, surface tension and thermal properties. our products accurately and flexibly measure a wide range of rheological properties in the lab and in process applications. these measurement platforms use open standards and have the ability to connect to a range of sensors and systems. our extruders and blenders address r&amp;d, small-scale production, quality control and pharmaceutical needs. single screw and twin screw process extruders with measuring capabilities are used in lab and pilot scale tests for compounding and processing of polymers and ceramics. in the pharmaceutical markets, our p roducts are used for quality control of the continuous mixing process. compliance testing. our compliance testing product lines provide simulation and verification equipment for electronic components and systems. based on pulsed emi (electromagnetic interference) technology, our products provide testing of electromagnetic compatibility, electrostatic discharge and transmission line pulse for original equipment manufacturers in the semiconductor market and independent testing labs. financial statement index 9 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) services we provide a complete portfolio of services and management solutions designed to help our customers improve productivity, reduce total cost of ownership of analytical instruments and ensure compliance. from instrument and equipment acquisition to disposition, we provide an extensive global service network to support our installed base of instruments. from instrument support plans, preventive and corrective maintenance to instrument qualifications, our product services are designed to remove the hassle and worry from instrument maintenance allowing our customers to focus on their goals while increasing positive results in the lab. furthermore, our parts, accessories, software and instrument upgrades provide our customers with the tools necessary to improve productivity and quality. in addition, our multi-vendor laboratory instrument services provide our customer complete laboratory support. certified and experienced multi vendor service engineers provide instrument qualifications, preventive and corrective maintenance, validation, regulatory compliance and metrology services allowing our customer to expan d our high quality cost effective instrument support throughout their operations. we also provide our customers enterprise management solutions that streamline the services processes, increase operational efficiencies while reducing expenses and decreasing total cost of ownership. with integrated capabilities consisting of equipment maintenance management, physical inventory tracking and enterprise-wide maintenance reporting, coupled with direct and multi-vendor service capabilities, our asset management solutions are customizable to meet the business needs of our customers. our asset management solutions business proactively manages all of our customers' instruments and equipment so they have visibility to all of their assets and gain assurance that services are being delivered and performed on time. specialty diagnostics our specialty diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare laboratories in hospitals, academic and research institutes, to prepare and analyze patient samples such as blood, urine, body fluids or tissue sections, to detect and diagnose diseases, such as cancer. we also provide diagnostic testing services for certain neurological, renal and endocrine disorders to physicians, hospital laboratories and reference laboratories. microbiology our microbiology offerings include high-quality microbiology laboratory products, including dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products focus on aiding customers in the diagnosis of infectious disease, implementing effective infection control programs or in detecting microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. these products are used by microbiologists worldwide to grow and identify bacteria and to detect viruses and parasites. within the clinical field, these products are used to facilitate a rapid and accurate diagnosis of infectious disease, to determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy and to aid in the implementation of infection control programs. key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference laboratories, clinics and physician offices. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments, raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination. industrial customers are comprised of quality control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, pe rsonal care, pharmaceutical and biotech companies. financial statement index 10 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostics reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology; first trimester screening, tumor markers testing and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our immunoassay reagents and controls for major in-vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with c ustomers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays, including those for newer drugs such as oxycodone, heroin metabolite and buprenorphine. we also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis. in addition to our own sales channels, our laboratory automation systems are distributed by some of the leading diagnostic manufacturers, such as ortho-clinical diagnostics. we are also a provider of specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. anatomical pathology we provide a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity, tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing, blades and paraffin used to section tissue, and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing, tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing, superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency, embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue, automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. our key customers include independent and hospital-based diagnostic laboratories engaged in the diagnosis of cancer, medical universities, as well as pharmaceutical and biotech research institutions. thermo fisher manufactures high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. financial statement index 11 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) biosciences our broad range of biosciences products and services includes fine and high-purity chemistry products; nucleic acid synthesis reagents; high-performance polymerase chain reaction (pcr) reagents and related products; enzymes, reagents, kits and other consumables for molecular biology; rna interference (rnai) and other gene-modulation and gene-expression reagents; high-quality antibodies; proprietary protein analysis reagents and kits; high-content screening and analysis products; cell-culture products and sterile bioprocessing systems. these products are used across the general chemistry and life sciences arenas primarily for scientific research, drug discovery, diagnostics, as well as biopharmaceutical research and production. life science research our life science research products provide innovative technologies, services and support to our global research and business partners. focusing on genomics, proteomics and cell biology applications, these products are used in academic, government, diagnostic, biotechnology and pharmaceutical laboratories globally to understand biological processes and the basis of human diseases and to shorten the drug discovery and development process. our genomics products are focused on gene silencing, gene expression and nucleic-acid amplification and detection. our gene modulation product lines include synthetic small interfering rna and viral vectors containing short hairpin rna for gene silencing and complementary dna vectors for gene expression. together these technologies allow researchers to control the expression of specific genes in order to understand their function. our pcr, reverse transcription-pcr and real-time quantitative-pcr reagents include a proprietary line of high-performance dna polymerases. scientists use these products along with pcr reaction plates and sealing products to amplify and measure nucleic acids with high precision and sensitivity, enabling them to gain a better understanding of the control mechanis ms inside a cell. our broad offering for molecular and cellular biology also includes high-quality restriction and modifying enzymes, molecular weight markers and reagents for nucleic-acid purification. we supply a number of stock and custom products through business-to-business relationships including high purity rna and dna synthesis reagents, high purity nucleotides, novel fluorescent dyes, dye-labeled compounds, customized pcr plastics and other molecular biology reagents. our synthesis products are used by oligo nucleotides manufacturers in both research and the rapidly emerging nucleic-acid therapeutic markets. our genomics offering also has a wide range of highly advanced services including genome-wide rnai screening, rnai in vivo technology development, high-content screening and cell line development, micro rna profiling and custom chemical synthesis. our proteomics products enable the effective and efficient study of the biology of proteins and offer cell-based assays and services for high-content pathway analysis. scientists use our reagents and kits for protein purification, protein detection and quantitation, protein sample preparation, protein labeling, and protein-interaction and related studies. these products provide scientists with new capabilities and help them achieve sensitive and accurate results more efficiently. our extensive offering includes more than 30,000 high-quality antibodies, peptides and proteins, including many antibodies labeled with novel fluorescent dyes. complementing the company's technology leadership in mass spectroscopy, some of our products support a complete protein analysis workflow in ms ana lysis, including innovative stable isotope-based reagents. our specialized reagent kits and assays are powerful tools for fluorescent cell-based screening and analysis of specific molecular targets and biological parameters. together, they comprise a wide range of high-content analysis and high-content screening assays. our cellomics business provides leading technologies and products to advance cell science research, including complete systems for high-content imaging of cells, tissues and whole organisms. this total platform includes automated imaging instruments, image analysis software, data management and bioinformatics software, coupled with reagents, cell-culture media, sera and specialty media formulations, along with laboratory automation and services. this offering provides the life science researcher with a quantitative, automated approach to understanding the biology of cells, including stem cells and cell systems, supporting all aspects of the drug discovery process as well as academic and systems biology research. financial statement index 12 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) bioprocess production our bioprocess production offerings include cell-culture and bioprocessing products used in the production of animal and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and wound healing. these products and technologies continue to lead the industry in innovation and quality, encompassing preeminent cell-culture products (sera, classical media, serum-free and protein-free media, and process liquids) and bioprocessing systems, including flexible, single-use bioprocess container systems, which are sterile, disposable bags specifically designed for transporting, mixing, dispensing, and storing sterile liquids and powders. in particular, the innovative single-use bioreactor (sub) product line offers a single-use alternative to conventional stirred tank bioreactors cur rently used in animal cell culture. the sub emulates the scalability and operating parameters of the conventional stirred tank bioreactors yet is disposable, offering numerous process and regulatory advantages. the rapid acceptance of this technology is changing the landscape of the bioprocessing industry. these products are used in industrial and academic research markets for biotherapeutic discovery, cellular interaction studies, toxicity testing, antiviral and anticancer studies, as well as in biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes, where they have been specifically qualified for use in bioscience applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. global chemicals our global chemicals products provide solutions for chemistry-based applications to scientists involved in analysis, research and development, and manufacturing primarily in the pharmaceutical, life sciences and high technology markets. we offer reliable, industry leading products and services through internal expertise and through partnerships with leading providers of chemical technology. we deliver these products and solutions through our extensive global distribution network. our broad portfolio includes organic chemicals used in basic research applications to synthesize new materials. we also provide a comprehensive line of essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products. our broad range of bioreagents is used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis. in addition, our offering of novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries are used by medicinal and organic chemists to accelerate drug discovery. we also provide bulk volumes of many of our products when customers scale up from research to development. laboratory products and services segment through our laboratory products and services segment, we offer a combination of products and services that allows our customers to engage in their core business functions of research, development, manufacturing, clinical diagnosis and drug discovery more accurately, rapidly and cost effectively. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries. this segment has three primary growth platforms laboratory products, customer channels and biopharma services and provides products and integrated solutions for various scientific challenges that support many facets of life science research, clinical diagnosis and workplace safety. specifically, our laboratory equipment products consist primarily of sample preparation, controlled environment storage and handling equipment as well as laboratory workstations ; our laboratory consumables include consumables, tubes and containers for sample preparation, analysis and sample storage. our research market channel offers a wide variety of proprietary and third-party chemicals, instruments and apparatus, liquid handling pumps and devices, capital equipment and consumables; our healthcare market channel offers proprietary and third-party analytical equipment, diagnostic tools and reagents and consumables; our safety market channel offers proprietary and third-party workplace and first responder equipment, protective gear and apparel; and our biopharma services offerings include packaging, warehousing and distribution services, labeling, pharmaceutical and biospecimen storage, and analytical laboratory services primarily in the area of drug discovery and pharmaceutical clinical trials. financial statement index 13 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) in the research market channel, the fisher scientific catalog has been published for over 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. in the research, healthcare and safety market channels, we publish more than 3 million copies of our various catalogs each year in eight different languages. our e-commerce product references are showcased by our website, www.fishersci.com , which is a leading e-commerce site supporting the scientific research community. the website contains full product content for more than 390,000 products. we maintain an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaul ts and temperature controlled storage capacity, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities. we deliver our products through third-party carriers and our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles. third-party carriers include ups, federal express, dhl and other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. laboratory products laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products and integrated solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development, and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance the quality of life. we provide a broad range of equipment that is used for the preparation and preservation of chemical and biological samples, primarily for pharmaceutical, academic, clinical and government customers. products include incubators that are used in biological experiments to allow growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions of temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. we are leaders in cold temperature storage equipment, ranging from laboratory refrigerators and freezers to ultralow temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks, which are used primarily for storing samples in a cold environment to protect from degradation. these systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature conditions. we also offer a wide range of centrifuges, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our microcentrifuges are primarily used for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory, our general use benchtop centrifuges are suitable for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine, and our floor models are used for large volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. our biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. equipped with filtered air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, biological safety cabinets can be used for tissue culture, ivf, infectious samples, forensic analysis or bioterrorism research. financial statement index 14 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) we offer a wide variety of microplate instruments for drug discovery, assay development, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and applied testing markets. our portfolio includes microplate detection instruments, multichannel reagent dispensing, magnetic particle purification systems, microplate washer and incubation equipment. microplate detection instruments include uv, fluorescence, luminescence and multimode reader technologies. these instruments are designed for the analysis and optimization of assays, such as binding assays; absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion toxicity; molecular biology assays; enzyme kinetic studies; ion-channel; and cell signaling assays. multichannel reagent dispensing is critical to the efficiency and reproducibility of assays and we offer a flexibl e sample preparation system to meet the stringent requirements of reagent dispensing in pharmaceutical and biotechnology laboratories. we provide products for the purification of proteins, nucleic acids and cells in a convenient, rapid and reproducible manner using a patented magnetic particle method. the system consists of instruments, specially designed plastics and software to provide a total purification solution for customer applications. we offer a variety of other laboratory products such as water purification systems, chillers, shakers, stirrers, hotplates, water baths, ovens, furnaces, vacuum concentrators and in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality control applications where temperature uniformity and control are critical. we supply internet, phone and field technical support and service for laboratory equipment including installation, maintenance, repair and training on a worldwide basis via a network of internal phone support technicians and field-based service technicians as well as third-party service providers. laboratory consumables we manufacture and sell solutions consisting of plastics and glass consumables and related equipment to entities enhancing their scientific research, including drug discovery and development, quality and process control, clinical and basic research and development. the product configurations, material choice, surface treatments and cleaning methods are specifically selected to meet the demands of a vast array of life science applications. our broad portfolio of laboratory consumables provides quality products that range from sample collection and preparation to sample handling and analysis. our scalable cell culture platforms are used for life science research, analysis and discovery. we offer a broad range of surface technologies to meet the different application needs from traditional stem cell to human stem cell lines. we provide a complete range of cell culture products from laboratory research to production scale. our formats include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address sample handling within the cell culture process. our cell factory product line and roller bottles are widely used in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. we have a full line of centrifugation consumables for applications ranging from sample preparation though downstream bioprocessing. additionally, we manufacture sample storage vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage that offer specific products for low protein binding and low dna binding functionality. we offer a wide selection of containers for packaging of life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. many of our containers are produced in iso class 7 cleanrooms and carry specific certifications to meet increasing industry requirements. we are a leading manufacturer of laboratory pipette tips and offer a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems. this offering satisfies the liquid handling demands from low (manual) through high (automated) throughput levels. this diverse product portfolio is designed to optimize productivity, ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. our detection instruments portfolio includes microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and pcr and qpcr instruments. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics and genomics efficiency, high quality performance and accurate results. financial statement index 15 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) we offer a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug of abuse collection kits and environmental and food safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we are a market leader in the manufacture of plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we provide chromatography consumables for both liquid and gas chromatography including hplc columns, gc columns, fittings, tubing, injection liners, gc septa, auto-sampler vials, closures and general chromatography accessories. our chromatography sample preparation products range from syringe filter and solid phase extraction consumables to manual and automated chromatography glass syringes. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical test kits and drug of abuse. our custom cleaning services and specialty coatings include sterilization, depyrogenation, low particulate, low toc, silanization and siliconization used in drug discovery. laboratory workstations we are a major supplier of laboratory workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory renovation. our product offerings include steel, wood and plastic laminate casework systems, adaptable furniture systems, chemical ventilation fume hoods and chemical storage cabinets and various other laboratory fixtures and accessories. customer channels our customer channels platform serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotech, government, industrial and healthcare customers through our fisher scientific, fisher healthcare, fisher safety, fisher science education and cole-parmer offerings. our fisher scientific offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to allow our customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in laboratory research and development throughout the world. we provide products and solutions focused on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples through our fisher healthcare offerings. we also provide safety-related products through our fisher safety offerings including cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighti ng, military and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our fisher science education offerings include science related educational and laboratory products for the k 12 and secondary education market. our cole-parmer offerings include a wide variety of laboratory and industrial fluid handling products, instrumentation, equipment, and supplies. in addition to our broad product portfolio, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our managed services team. services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery, coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core research and business activities. we go to market through our broad sales force, global network of resellers and distributors, printed catalogs, and state-of-the-art website. we maintain a global sales force of over 1,500 personnel, augmented by a large global network of resellers and distributors. our print catalogs range from hardcopy volumes that include detailed descriptions of over 40,000 products to industry-specific catalogs targeted to customers in such industries as wine-testing, food safety and controlled environments. in addition to our print catalogs, we maintain an on-line catalog via our www.fishersci.com website that allows our customers to search our product portfolio and purchase over 1,000,000 products on-line. financial statement index 16 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) research market channel our research market channel offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to allow our customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in laboratory research and development throughout the world. our customers represent all industries requiring any level of laboratory research, including but not limited to the medical research, pharmaceutical, biotech, food and agriculture, government, academic and manufacturing industries. our products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. we offer a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, that are manufactured by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and that are manufactured by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our print catalog consists of more than 40,000 products. beyond this catalog, we offer our customers access to an additional 900,000 products. our e-commerce website, www.fishersci.com , has been an industry-leading online ordering and reference tool since its inception in the 1990s. in addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our managed services team. services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery, coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core research activities. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic and cardiac risk management solutions, along with blood collection devices, consumable vials and transportation devices, as well as an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing devices for drugs-of-abuse testing and diagnosis and monitoring of cancer, endocrine function and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, nervous system, respiratory and sexually transmitted diseases. the healthcare market core product offering also includes high-end diagnostic instruments and equipment together with the reagents used in those instruments and equipment to perform diagnostic tests. sales in the healthcare market a re fueled by the administration and evaluation of diagnostic tests. we believe that the aging population, as well as the increased demand for the development of new specialty diagnostic tests, will result in increased market growth. in addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our managed services team. services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel that manage inventory, provide on-site customer service, and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core responsibilities. financial statement index 17 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) safety market channel through our safety market channel we supply safety-related products to various industries including laboratory research, industrial manufacturing, healthcare, universities, food/agriculture, environmental and petrochemical as well as government and municipal agencies, fire departments and military units. products offered to these markets include: cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies; personal protective equipment such as respirators, clothing, gloves, hardhats, hearing protection and eyewear; fall protection harnesses and restraints; self-contained breathing apparatus; specialized firefighting and military equipment and supplies; environmental monitoring and sampling equipment; and first responder supplies and equipment such as decontamination tents, bio-isolation systems, chemi cal protective suits and emergency response trailers. we offer products mainly manufactured by third parties as well as those manufactured by thermo fisher. we also provide access to a broad offering of training, equipment servicing and on-site inventory management support through our dedicated safety sales professionals, equipment service employees and on-site customer support teams. our goal is to provide a total solution of products, training and support to our customers. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging, over-encapsulation, multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials, analytical testing, biological-specimen management, as well as specialty pharmaceutical logistics and clinical supply-chain management. thermo fisher's biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. services are offered throughout the world, with operations in the united states, united kingdom, switzerland, india, latin america, china, ireland, singapore, japan and russia. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 10,500 sales and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment. during 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent $287.2 million, $246.1 million and $249.1 million, respectively, on research and development. financial statement index 18 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials and the use of derivative instruments, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in both segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2010 and 2009 was as follows: (in millions) 2010 2009 analytical technologies $ 925.2 $ 857.0 laboratory products and services 488.2 480.8 $ 1,413.4 $ 1,337.8 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2010 will be filled during 2011. government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. financial statement index 19 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. in general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984. our rockford, illinois, facility is subject to a resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) corrective action program administered by the illinois environmental protection agency. we are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site. financial statement index 20 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $22 million at december 31, 2010. the liability for environmental matters associated with fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the united states drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, the food and drug administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 37,200 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. financial statement index 21 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our a nnual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 42 president and chief executive officer (2001) kenneth berger 48 senior vice president (2010) gregory j. herrema 45 senior vice president (2008) seth h. hoogasian 56 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) alan j. malus 51 senior vice president (2006) edward a. pesicka 43 senior vice president (2008) peter m. wilver 51 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 51 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. he was president, life and laboratory sciences from december 2001 to march 2005. mr. berger was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in may 2010. he was president of the biosciences business from april 2007 until may 2010, and was president of the process instruments business from july 2005 through april 2007. mr. herrema was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president of analytical instruments in may 2008. he was president, scientific instruments from may 2006 to october 2009. he was president, environmental instruments from january 2002 to may 2006. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. malus was appointed president of laboratory products in july 2008 and senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. malus was group president of distribution and services for fisher, where he focused on growing the company's customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. mr. malus joined fisher in 1998 and served in a variety of management roles. financial statement index 22 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1. business (continued) mr. pesicka was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, customer channels in july 2008. he was president, research market from november 2006 to july 2008. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. pesicka was vice president and general manager of fisher's u.s. research market business from january 2004 to november 2006. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 3. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products in order to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. financial statement index 23 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors (continued) our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. the current economic conditions including the lingering effects of the global recession could adversely impact our business in 2011 and beyond, resulting in: reduced demand for some of our products; increased rate of order cancellations or delays; increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. demand for most of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect product demand and the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. as a multinational corporation, our businesses o ccasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. in addition, reported sales made in non-u.s. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2010, currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $20 million on the revenues of our continuing operations due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the recently enacted federal legislation on healthcare reform could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. the new legislation also includes an excise tax, beginning in 2013, on revenue from the sale by manufacturers of certain medical devices, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. financial statement index 24 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors (continued) our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results o f operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or te chnology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if any of our security products fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. the products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments businesses include a comprehensive range of fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to p roduct liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. financial statement index 25 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors (continued) our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $9.27 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2010. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governin g government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our largest customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory consumables business and our largest customer in the diagnostics business are also significant competitors. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with these customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products fr om multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as ups and federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if ups or another third-party package-delivery provider experiences a major work stoppage, prevent ing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if ups or our other third-party package-delivery providers increase prices, and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. financial statement index 26 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors (continued) we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies that require us to comply with a wide variety of regulations, including those regarding the manufacture of products, the shipping of our products and environmental matters. some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which w ould increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern the handling, transportation, manufacture, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous substances. some risk of environmental damage is inherent in our operations and the products we manufacture, sell or distribute. this requires us to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the establishment of reserves to address potential environmental costs, and manage environmental risks. we rely heavily on our manufacturing operations to produce products we sell, and our business could be adversely affected by disruptions of our manufacturing operations. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain th e materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we opera te. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins, steel and serum. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems or system failures at certain of our sites could interfere with our operations. as a part of the effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. financial statement index 27 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors (continued) we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precaut ions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.14 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we had the ability to borrow an additional $952 million under our revolving credit facility. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. if we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility include a debt-to-ebitda ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedne ss to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.0 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under one of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain operational and balance sheet exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates or commodity prices. such exposures result from purchases, sales and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations or commodity price movement. the company engages in limited hedging activities primarily to protect the compa ny's cash flows related to these commitments from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and from volatility in commodity prices. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euros, british pounds sterling, chinese yuan, japanese yen, australian dollars, indian rupees, canadian dollars and chilean pesos. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2010, the company's debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2010 was $2.29 billion. fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2010 would increase by approximately $77 million. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. a 100-basis-point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2010, would increase the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $12 million. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the company's reporting currency as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euros, british pounds sterling, canadian dollars, swedish kronor, and swiss francs. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2010 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $441 million. financial statement index 52 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2010 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $41 million. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2010 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $12 million on the company's net income. equity prices the company's convertible obligations are sensitive to fluctuations in the price of the company's common stock. changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the company's convertible obligations due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the financial instrument. a 10% increase in year-end 2010 market equity prices would increase the fair value of the company's convertible obligations by $45 million.risk factors 17 business segments and products we report our business in three segments: analytical technologies; specialty diagnostics; and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. analytical technologies segment through our analytical technologies segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products are used by customers in all four of our key end markets: healthcare and diagnostics; pharmaceutical and biotechnology; academic and government; and industrial and applied. this segment includes four primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, environmental and process instruments, and biosciences. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns. mass spectrometry (ms) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; inorganic mass spectrometry systems; and elemental analysis instrumentation; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our hybrid (lc/ms/ms) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (fticr) and orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities in a single system for complex biological analyses, such as proteomics. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. financial statement index 4 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial qa/qc. ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. our elemental analysis spectrometers include two product lines: atomic absorption (aa) and inductively coupled plasma (icp) systems, which use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. we also provide a complete portfolio of services, from single instrument support to enterprise-wide asset management solutions designed to help our customers improve productivity and quality while reducing total cost of ownership and ensuring regulatory compliance. instrument support covers preventive and corrective maintenance, and system and software upgrades, and includes multi-vendor services. enterprise-wide solutions are customizable, and include physical inventory tracking, maintenance and asset management reporting, coupled with direct and multi-vendor service capabilities. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall predominantly into two main categories: elemental analysis and molecular spectroscopy. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials in small samples to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications. our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field. our chemical analysis products fall into four main categories: materials and minerals, molecular spectroscopy, portable analytical instruments, and materials characterization. materials and minerals products include bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. we also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of web-produced materials, such as plastics, foil and glass. financial statement index 5 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) molecular spectroscopy products are divided into four primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ftir), raman, near-infrared (nir) and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. we also provide a range of surface analysis products commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use xrf technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, ftir and nir technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. materials characterization products include rheometers, viscometers, extruders and compounders that accurately measure viscosity, elasticity, processability and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. these instruments are used in laboratory and process applications in the plastics, food, cosmetics, pharmaceutical, coatings, and petrochemical industries. environmental and process instruments our environmental and process instruments help our customers comply with government regulations and industry safety standards; analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations; and improve product quality or increase process efficiency. our environmental analysis instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, and worker safety and security. radiation measurement and security instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. air quality instruments are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates to comply with regulated emissions standards. we provide single instruments or customized continuous emission monitoring systems that monitor, collect and report data from multiple locations. our gas detection instruments detect criteria pollutants, such as nitrogen oxide, at the parts-per-trillion level. in addition, we offer particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments for worker protection used by industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel. financial statement index 6 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) water analysis instruments include meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products or processes are critical, such as qa/qc in the food and beverage industry, chemical and pharmaceutical production, and for environmental compliance. our process instrumentation is used for optimization and control in a range of process industries, and for detecting contamination in packaged materials and consumer goods. key end markets include power generation; paper and petrochemical; oil and gas; food and beverage; and pharmaceuticals, as well as water and wastewater municipalities; federal, state and local agencies; and general commercial and academic laboratories. process instruments help customers to monitor, control and optimize their processes. these instruments provide measurements that help improve efficiency; provide process and quality control; maintain regulatory compliance; and increase worker safety, by providing real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation; radar; ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles; gas chromatography; and mass spectrometry. product inspection products help customers in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, these products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds. biosciences our biosciences offerings include instruments and consumables that help customers conduct scientific research, discover and produce new drugs, and diagnose disease. these products fall into three main categories: life science research, global chemicals and bioprocess production. life science research products enable customers to understand biological processes and the basis of human diseases and shorten the drug discovery and development process. they include instruments, reagents, consumables and other products for molecular, protein and cell biology applications. the portfolio includes reagents and kits for protein analysis and detection; restriction and modifying enzymes, nucleotides and other molecular biology reagents; rna-interference reagents and other gene-modulation products; polymerase chain reaction (pcr)/quantitative pcr (qpcr) reagents, instruments and plastic consumables; automated imaging instruments, and software and reagents for high-content analysis of cells and tissues. global chemicals comprise a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to discovery and development, to manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; and novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery. we also provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development. bioprocess production products include flexible, single-use bioprocess containers and bioprocessing systems as well as cell-culture media (including serum-free and protein-free media), sera and process liquids for the production of animal and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and products for wound healing. bioprocessing systems include a single-use bioreactor and single-use mixer, which offer many process and regulatory advantages over conventional fixed systems in animal cell culture. these products have been specifically qualified for bioscience applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. financial statement index 7 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has five primary businesses immunodiagnostics, clinical diagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, and our healthcare market customer channel. immunodiagnostics with our recent acquisition of phadia, our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. unlike skin prick tests, our in vitro allergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. in addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 chemical indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. these allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our immunoassay reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference laboratories, clinics and physician offices. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. industrial customers are comprised of quality control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech companies. financial statement index 8 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. our key customers include medical universities and independent and hospital-based diagnostic laboratories engaged in the diagnosis of cancer, as well as pharmaceutical and biotech research institutions. healthcare market customer channel our healthcare market customer channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, research and safety market customer channel, and biopharma services. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis, with product categories including: sample preparation and preservation equipment protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. this offering includes a comprehensive range of incubators and other related products. financial statement index 9 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) cold storage equipment such as our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks maintain samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. these systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature conditions. centrifugation products are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our broad range includes microcentrifuges, which are used primarily for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory; general use bench-top centrifuges for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine; and our floor models, which are used for large-volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. these cabinets, equipped with filtered-air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, can be used for tissue culture; handling of infectious samples; forensic analysis; bioterrorism research; and other applications. temperature control products include heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. laboratory furniture includes workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory renovation. our products include steel, wood and plastic laminate casework systems; adaptable furniture systems; chemical ventilation fume hoods; chemical storage cabinets; and various other laboratory fixtures and accessories. other laboratory equipment includes water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastic, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research; drug discovery and development;, quality and process control; and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. cell culture and bioproduction products support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, which are widely used in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. sample preparation and storage products include a full line of centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding. we also offer containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. liquid handling products include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. financial statement index 10 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) detection instruments include microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and pcr and qpcr instruments. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. specialty products and services include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we are a market leader in the manufacture of plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. research and safety market customer channel our research and safety market customer channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government, industrial and healthcare customers through our fisher scientific, fisher science education and cole-parmer offerings. we go to market through our broad sales force, more than 3 million printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 370,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. fisher scientific offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to enable our customers to engage more accurately, efficiently and safely in laboratory research and development, manufacturing, testing and other services throughout the world. our research products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. fisher science education offerings include science-related educational and laboratory products for the k 12 and secondary education market. cole-parmer offerings include a wide variety of laboratory and industrial fluid-handling products, instrumentation, equipment, and supplies for the industrial, government, academic, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare markets. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing, and dedicated logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery, coordinate instrument calibration and service, provide on-site customer service and deliver other services. by providing these services, we enable our customers to focus on their core research and business activities. financial statement index 11 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain management. thermo fisher's biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 11,900 sales and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment. during 2011, 2010 and 2009, we spent $341 million, $285 million and $244 million, respectively, on research and development. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in all three segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. financial statement index 12 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2011 and 2010 was as follows: (in millions) 2011 2010 analytical technologies $ 972.0 $ 778.8 specialty diagnostics 166.7 165.8 laboratory products and services 506.8 478.0 eliminations (17.5 ) (10.7 ) $ 1,628.0 $ 1,411.9 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2011 will be filled during 2012. government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. in general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; financial statement index 13 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984. our rockford, illinois, facility is subject to a resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) corrective action program administered by the illinois environmental protection agency. we are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $22 million at december 31, 2011. the liability for environmental matters associated with fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. financial statement index 14 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the united states drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, the food and drug administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 39,300 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. financial statement index 15 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 43 president and chief executive officer (2001) alan j. malus 52 executive vice president (2006) seth h. hoogasian 57 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 48 senior vice president (2012) edward a. pesicka 44 senior vice president (2008) andrew j. thomson 47 senior vice president (2012) peter m. wilver 52 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 52 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. he was president, life and laboratory sciences from december 2001 to march 2005. mr. malus was appointed executive vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, analytical technologies in january 2012. he was president, laboratory products from july 2008 to january 2012 and was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. malus was group president of distribution and services for fisher, where he focused on growing the company's customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. mr. malus joined fisher in 1998 and served in a variety of management roles. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, laboratory products in january 2012. he was appointed president of the laboratory equipment business in august 2008, and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. pesicka was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, customer channels in july 2008. he was president, research market from november 2006 to july 2008. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. pesicka was vice president and general manager of fisher's u.s. research market business from january 2004 to november 2006. mr. thomson was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in february 2012. he has been president of the clinical diagnostics business since october 2009 and was vice president and general manager for north america for the microbiology business from january 2009 until october 2009. before joining thermo fisher scientific, mr. thomson spent the prior fifteen years in the diagnostics industry in a variety of marketing and commercial roles of increasing responsibility with dade behring and roche diagnostics. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. financial statement index 16 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 4. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. financial statement index 17 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of: reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. for example, recent developments in europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. this debt crisis and related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european customers and reducing our u.s. dollar revenues as translated from the euro. in addition, the european crisis could result in customers in europe taking longer to pay for products they have purchased from us, or being unable to pay at all. the continued weakness in world economies makes the strength and timing of any economic recovery uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not deteriorate further. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect product demand and the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. in addition, reported sales made in non-u.s. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2010, currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $19 million on the revenues of our continuing operations due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services, but in 2011, currency translation had a favorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of $266 million due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the recently enacted federal legislation on healthcare reform could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. the new legislation also includes an excise tax, beginning in 2013, on revenue from the sale by manufacturers of certain medical devices, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. financial statement index 18 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if our security products fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. financial statement index 19 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $11.99 billion and $1.33 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2011. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business and our largest customer in the diagnostics business are also significant competitors. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with these customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one of these third-party package-delivery provider experiences a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one of these third-party package-delivery providers increase prices, and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. financial statement index 20 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies that require us to comply with a wide variety of regulations, including those regarding the manufacture of products, the shipping of our products and environmental matters. some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern the handling, transportation, manufacture, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous substances. some risk of environmental damage is inherent in our operations and the products we manufacture, sell or distribute. this requires us to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the establishment of reserves to address potential environmental costs, and manage environmental risks. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. financial statement index 21 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $7.03 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we had the ability to borrow an additional $951 million under our revolving credit facility and an additional $100 million under another revolver that supports our commercial paper program. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions and reduced lending activity, may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future. we cannot be sure that initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will continue to stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility include a total debt-to-ebitda ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.5 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, chinese yuan, australian dollars and japanese yen. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2011, the company's debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2011 was $7.39 billion (see note 12). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2011 would increase by approximately $342 million. if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2011 would decrease by approximately $321 million. financial statement index 46 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euro, swedish krona, british pounds sterling, canadian dollars, danish krone, and swiss francs. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2011 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $761 million. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2011 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $30 million. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2011 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $30 million. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2011 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $10 million on the company's net income.risk factors 17 business segments and products we report our business in three segments: analytical technologies; specialty diagnostics; and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. analytical technologies segment through our analytical technologies segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products are used by customers in all four of our key end markets: pharmaceutical and biotechnology; academic and government; industrial and applied; and healthcare and diagnostics. this segment includes four primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, environmental and process instruments, and biosciences. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns. mass spectrometry (ms) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; inorganic mass spectrometry systems; and elemental analysis instrumentation; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our hybrid (lc/ms/ms) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, quadrupole and orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. financial statement index 4 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. our comprehensive array of consumables and environmental sampling products complete the workflow solution. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial qa/qc. ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. our elemental analysis spectrometers include two product lines: atomic absorption (aa) and inductively coupled plasma (icp) systems, which use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into three main categories: materials and minerals; molecular spectroscopy; and portable analytical instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials in small samples to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications. our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field. materials and minerals products include bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. we also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. financial statement index 5 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) molecular spectroscopy products are divided into four primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ftir), raman, near-infrared (nir) and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material analysis products include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis products commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use xrf technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, ftir and nir technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. environmental and process instruments our environmental and process instruments help our customers comply with government regulations and industry safety standards; analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations; and improve product quality or increase process efficiency. our environmental analysis instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, and worker safety and security. radiation measurement and security instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process monitoring instruments are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates to comply with regulated emissions standards. our products are also used in process monitoring applications by customers in natural gas, petrochemical, refining, and a wide variety of other industrial markets to provide measurements that improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, and increase worker safety. for environmental monitoring, we provide single instruments as well as customized continuous emission monitoring systems that monitor, collect and report data from multiple locations. our gas detection instruments detect criteria pollutants, such as nitrogen oxide, at the parts-per-trillion level. in addition, we offer particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments for worker protection used by industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel. for process monitoring, our instruments allow process optimization and control by providing real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis, and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles, gas chromatography, and mass spectrometry. financial statement index 6 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) water analysis instruments include meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products or processes are critical, such as qa/qc in the food and beverage industry, chemical and pharmaceutical production, and for environmental compliance. product inspection products help customers monitor processes and operations in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, these products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds. biosciences our biosciences offerings include reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover and produce new drugs and vaccines, and diagnose disease. these products fall into three main categories: life science research, chemicals and bioprocess production. life science research reagents, instruments, and consumables are used for cell culture, protein, biology, molecular biology, and cell biology research and applied testing. the portfolio includes cell culture serum and media; antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; products for nucleic acid sequencing, detection and purification, cloning and analysis, rna interference and gene expression; and cellular imaging instruments and software reagents for high content analysis. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; and novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. bioprocess production products include customized, single-use containers and single-use bioreactor systems, liquid and dry powder cell-culture media (serum-free, chemically defined, protein-free, and animal derived component-free media), sera and process liquids. these products are used in the production of human and animal vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and products for wound healing. available in turnkey and open architecture formats, these systems have been specifically qualified for bioprocess production applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. custom services are also available for media and feed formulation media optimization, analytical services, production method development and optimization, rapid prototyping, and supply chain management. specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which financial statement index 7 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses immunodiagnostics, clinical diagnostics, transplant diagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, and our healthcare market channel. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. unlike skin prick tests, our in vitro allergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. in addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. these allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. transplant diagnostics with our recent acquisition of one lambda, we acquired the world leader in human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, elisa, flow, and luminex xmap technologies. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. financial statement index 8 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, research and safety market channel, and biopharma services. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis, with product categories including: sample preparation and preservation equipment protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. this offering includes a comprehensive range of incubators and other related products. financial statement index 9 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) cold storage equipment such as our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks maintain samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. centrifugation products are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our broad range includes microcentrifuges, which are used primarily for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory; general use bench-top centrifuges for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine; and our floor models, which are used for large-volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. these cabinets, equipped with filtered-air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, can be used for tissue culture; handling of infectious samples; forensic analysis; bioterrorism research; and other applications. temperature control products include heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. other laboratory equipment includes water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research; drug discovery and development; quality and process control; and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. cell culture and bioproduction products support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, which are widely used in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. sample preparation and storage products include a full line of centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding. we also offer containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. liquid handling products include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. detection instruments include microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and pcr and qpcr instruments. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. specialty products and services include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we also manufacture plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. financial statement index 10 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our broad sales force, more than 3 million printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 370,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. we offer a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to enable our customers to engage more accurately, efficiently and safely in laboratory research and development, manufacturing, testing and other services throughout the world. our research products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k 12 and secondary education market. our cole-parmer offerings include a wide variety of laboratory and industrial fluid-handling products, instrumentation, equipment, and supplies for the industrial, government, academic, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare markets. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel that manage the procurement, movement and inventory of laboratory supplies to streamline processes, increase resource availability and reduce inventory management costs. available scientific support services include desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. by providing these services, we enable our customers to focus on their core research and business activities. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain management. thermo fisher's biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and financial statement index 11 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 12,600 sales and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment. during 2012, 2011 and 2010, we spent $376 million, $340 million and $284 million, respectively, on research and development. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in all three segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. financial statement index 12 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2012 and 2011 was as follows: (in millions) 2012 2011 analytical technologies $ 1,025.0 $ 972.0 specialty diagnostics 187.0 166.7 laboratory products and services 381.0 368.0 eliminations (15.4 ) (17.5 ) $ 1,577.6 $ 1,489.2 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2012 will be filled during 2013. government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. in general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. financial statement index 13 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984. our rockford, illinois, facility is subject to a resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) corrective action program administered by the illinois environmental protection agency. we are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $23 million at december 31, 2012. the liability for environmental matters associated with fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the united states drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, the food and drug administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. financial statement index 14 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 38,900 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. financial statement index 15 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 44 president and chief executive officer (2001) alan j. malus 53 executive vice president (2006) seth h. hoogasian 58 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 49 senior vice president (2012) edward a. pesicka 45 senior vice president (2008) andrew j. thomson 48 senior vice president (2012) peter m. wilver 53 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 53 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. malus was appointed executive vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, analytical technologies in january 2012. he was president, laboratory products from july 2008 to january 2012 and was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. malus was group president of distribution and services for fisher, where he focused on growing the company's customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. mr. malus joined fisher in 1998 and served in a variety of management roles. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, laboratory products in january 2012. he was appointed president of the laboratory equipment business in august 2008, and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. pesicka was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, customer channels in july 2008. he was president, research market from november 2006 to july 2008. prior to thermo's merger with fisher, mr. pesicka was vice president and general manager of fisher's u.s. research market business from january 2004 to november 2006. mr. thomson was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in february 2012. he was president of the clinical diagnostics business from october 2009 to may 2012 and was vice president and general manager for north america for the microbiology business from january 2009 until october 2009. before joining thermo fisher scientific, mr. thomson spent the prior fifteen years in the diagnostics industry in a variety of marketing and commercial roles of increasing responsibility with roche diagnostics and prior to that, dade behring. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. financial statement index 16 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 4. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. financial statement index 17 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of: reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. for example, recent developments in europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. this debt crisis and related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european customers and reducing our u.s. dollar revenues as translated from the euro. in addition, the european crisis could result in customers in europe taking longer to pay for products they have purchased from us, or being unable to pay at all. the continued weakness in world economies makes the strength and timing of any economic recovery uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not deteriorate further. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. the u.s. government has been unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the budget control act of 2011. unless congress and the administration take further action, an enforcement mechanism known as sequestration will trigger a total of $1.2 trillion in spending reductions over the next decade, divided between domestic and defense spending. as a result, government funding would be reduced for certain of our customers, including those who are dependent on funding from the national institutes of health, which would likely have a significant effect on these entities' spending policies. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect product demand and the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. in addition, reported sales made in non-u.s. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2011, currency translation had a favorable effect of $244 million on the revenues of our continuing operations due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services, and in 2012, currency translation had an unfavorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of $227 million. financial statement index 18 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the recently enacted patient protection and affordable care act could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if our security products fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our financial statement index 19 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $12.47 billion and $1.34 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2012. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business and our largest customer in the diagnostics business are also significant competitors. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with these customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one of these third-party package-delivery financial statement index 20 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) provider experiences a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one of these third-party package-delivery providers increase prices, and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. for example, some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties. new regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. on august 22, 2012, the sec adopted a new rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. the new rule, which is effective for 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by may 31, 2014, will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. as our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. financial statement index 21 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $7.12 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, on april 11, 2012, we terminated our prior revolving credit agreements and entered into new revolving credit facilities that provide for up to $2.0 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions and reduced lending activity, may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future. we cannot be sure that initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will continue to stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facilities include a total debt-to-ebitda ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under either facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under either facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility that supports letters of credit, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.5 to 1.0. financial statement index 22 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, chinese yuan, japanese yen, swedish krona and australian dollars. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2012, the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2012 was $7.56 billion (see note 12). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2012 would increase by approximately $386 million. if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2012 would decrease by approximately $363 million. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euro, swedish krona, british pounds sterling, danish krone and canadian dollars. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2012 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $757 million. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in financial statement index 47 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) year-end 2012 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $54 million. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2012 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $54 million. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2012 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $14 million on the company's net income.risk factors 20 business segments and products for the year ended december 31, 2013, we reported our business in three segments: analytical technologies; specialty diagnostics; and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. with the completion of our acquisition of life technologies, we have established a new reporting segment, called life sciences solutions. effective january 1, 2014, the company's financial performance will be reported in four segments reflecting the following changes: the new life sciences solutions segment consists of the majority of the former life technologies businesses and thermo fisher biosciences businesses. thermo fisher's global chemicals business has moved from the biosciences business in the analytical technologies segment to the laboratory products and services segment. thermo fisher's analytical technologies segment has been renamed analytical instruments to reflect the transfer of the biosciences businesses to other segments, as mentioned above. two small specialty diagnostics businesses within life technologies have become part of the specialty diagnostics segment. thermo fisher has agreed to divest of its sera and media, gene modulation and magnetic beads businesses. the description of the company's businesses set forth below reflects the organization of the company prior to the completion of the life technologies acquisition. the businesses have been presented in this way to provide consistency with the company's 2013 financial statements and management's discussion and analysis of the 2013 financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. the life technologies businesses are described under the heading, life technologies businesses and related 2014 segment changes and divestitures. financial statement index 4 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) analytical technologies segment through our analytical technologies segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products are used by customers in all four of our key end markets: pharmaceutical and biotechnology; academic and government; industrial and applied; and healthcare and diagnostics. this segment includes four primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, environmental and process instruments, and biosciences. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns. mass spectrometry (ms) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; inorganic mass spectrometry systems; and elemental analysis instrumentation; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our hybrid (lc/ms/ms) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, quadrupole and orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. our comprehensive array of consumables and environmental sampling products complete the workflow solution. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial qa/qc. financial statement index 5 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. our elemental analysis spectrometers include two product lines: atomic absorption (aa) and inductively coupled plasma (icp) systems, which use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into four main categories: materials and minerals; molecular spectroscopy; portable analytical instruments; and radiation measurement and security instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. we also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into five primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ftir), raman, near-infrared (nir), ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis), and nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. financial statement index 6 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use xrf technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, ftir and nir technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments our environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates in compliance with regulated emissions standards. our products are also used in process monitoring applications by customers in natural gas, petrochemical, refining, and a wide variety of other industrial markets to provide measurements that improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, and increase worker safety. biosciences our biosciences offerings include reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover and produce new drugs and vaccines, and diagnose disease. these products fall into three main categories: life science research, global chemicals and bioprocess production. life science research reagents, instruments, and consumables are used for cell culture, protein, biology, molecular biology, and cell biology research and applied testing. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; products for nucleic acid sequencing, detection and purification, cloning and analysis, rna interference and gene expression; and cellular imaging instruments and software reagents for high content analysis. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. global chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; and novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. bioprocess production products include customized, single-use containers and single-use bioreactor systems, liquid and dry powder cell-culture media (serum-free, chemically defined, protein-free, and animal derived component-free media), sera and process liquids. these products are used in the manufacturing of human and animal vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and products for wound healing. available in turnkey and open architecture formats, these single-use systems have been specifically qualified for bioprocess production applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. custom services are also available for media and feed formulation media optimization, analytical services, production method development and optimization, rapid prototyping, and supply chain management. financial statement index 7 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses immunodiagnostics, clinical diagnostics, transplant diagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, and our healthcare market channel. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. unlike skin prick tests, our in vitro allergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. in addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. these allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, elisa, flow, and luminex xmap technologies. financial statement index 8 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, research and safety market channel, and biopharma services. financial statement index 9 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis, with product categories including: sample preparation and preservation equipment protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. this offering includes a comprehensive range of incubators and other related products. cold storage equipment such as our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks maintain samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. centrifugation products are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our broad range includes microcentrifuges, which are used primarily for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory; general use bench-top centrifuges for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine; and our floor models, which are used for large-volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. these cabinets, equipped with filtered-air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, can be used for tissue culture; handling of infectious samples; forensic analysis; bioterrorism research; and other applications. temperature control products include heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. water analysis instruments include meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products or processes are critical, such as qa/qc in the food and beverage industry, chemical and pharmaceutical production, and for environmental compliance. other laboratory equipment includes water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research; drug discovery and development; quality and process control; and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. cell culture and bioproduction products support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, and research serum and media products. these products are widely used in research and in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. financial statement index 10 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) sample preparation and storage products include a full line of centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding. we also offer containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. liquid handling products include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. detection instruments include microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and pcr and qpcr instruments. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. specialty products and services include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we also manufacture plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our broad sales force, printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 370,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. our cole-parmer offerings include a wide variety of laboratory and industrial fluid-handling products, instrumentation, equipment, and supplies for the industrial, government, academic, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare markets. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. financial statement index 11 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain management. thermo fisher's biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. life technologies businesses and related 2014 segment changes and divestitures with the acquisition of life technologies, we have enhanced our scale and depth of capabilities in research, specialty diagnostics and applied markets. we have established a new reporting segment, called life sciences solutions, and effective january 1, 2014, the company's financial performance will be reported in four segments reflecting the following changes: the new life sciences solutions segment consists of the majority of the former life technologies businesses and thermo fisher biosciences businesses. thermo fisher's global chemicals business has moved from the biosciences business in the analytical technologies segment to the laboratory products and services segment. thermo fisher's analytical technologies segment has been renamed analytical instruments to reflect the transfer of the biosciences businesses to other segments, as mentioned above. two small specialty diagnostics businesses within life technologies have become part of the specialty diagnostics segment. thermo fisher has agreed to divest of its sera and media, gene modulation and magnetic beads businesses. the systems and reagents offered through life sciences solutions enable, simplify and accelerate a broad spectrum of biological research of genes, proteins and cells within academic and life science research, clinical research and commercial applications. our scientific expertise assists in making biodiscovery research techniques more effective and efficient for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, government and academic scientific professionals with backgrounds in a wide range of scientific disciplines. the new life sciences solutions segment includes three primary businesses biosciences; genetic, medical &amp; applied sciences; and bioproduction. biosciences our new biosciences business includes life technologies' former life sciences business (with the exception of its bioproduction business) combined with thermo fisher's molecular and protein biology reagents businesses from its former biosciences business. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and products for nucleic acid sequencing, detection and purification for high content analysis. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. financial statement index 12 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) molecular probes fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. this product line also leverages a wide range of cell analysis instruments, such as the attune acoustic focusing cytometer, and imaging platforms to enable fluorescence microscopy. gibco cell culture media and reagents for preserving and growing mammalian cells, which are used in many life science research applications. this product line also features the cell therapy systems line of growth media, some of which has received fda 510k clearance in recent years. invitrogen products, which are among the most cited in research papers, and are comprised of tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis. this product line includes stem cell reprogramming kits, used for the development of ips cells; transfection reagents, which are widely used to transfer genetic elements into living cells, enable the study of protein function and gene regulation; rna interference reagents, which enable scientists to selectively turn off genes in biology systems to gain insight into biological pathways; along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. ambion products, consisting primarily of tools used for rna isolation, the first step for performing many molecular techniques, such as ngs, real-time qpcr, etc. specific products include: dynabeads, cells-to-ct, pulrelink and magmax. novex high-performance protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. other products include antibodies, which allow researchers to capture and label proteins, visualize their location through the use of dyes, and discern their role in disease. genetic, medical &amp; applied sciences our new genetic, medical and applied sciences business includes life technologies' ion torrent, genetic analysis and medical sciences businesses, with the addition of the human identification (hid) and food and animal health business from life technologies' applied sciences group. this business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to analyze dna across a broad range of applications in research, clinical and applied markets. our genetic, medical and applied sciences offerings include: genetic analysis , which primarily provides qpcr, capillary electrophoresis (ce) and next-generation sequencing (ngs) platforms and reagents. these products are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the dna structure of organisms, and to verify the composition of genetic research material. these approaches to genetic analysis are used in clinical research, human identification (hid), animal health and food safety applications. in addition, our pcr and real-time pcr systems, reagents and assays enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (dna and rna molecules for a host of applications in molecular biology. medical sciences provides qpcr and ngs technologies and assays for applications in molecular diagnostics, diagnostic development, clinical and translational research, and public health monitoring and is primarily focused on cancer and inherited disease. human identification , which provides instrumentation (qpcr, ce sequencing and ngs) and reagents to forensic laboratories that analyze dna recovered from crime scenes. these products are routinely used to positively convict criminals and exonerate the innocent. primary customers include the fbi and police departments around the world. financial statement index 13 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) animal health/food safety offers qpcr, elisa, sample preparation and ngs platforms for analysis applications in animal health and food safety. in animal health, we provide kits that are used to monitor health of farm animals by detection of viruses and pathogens. in food safety, we provide solutions to detect pathogens commonly at the root of many outbreaks: salmonella, e. coli, listeria, etc. we also provide the beverage industry with kits used to monitor bacterial contamination during beer and wine production. bioproduction the new bioproduction business includes thermo fisher's bioprocessing business and life technologies' bioproduction business. this business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single use technologies , which includes our thermo scientific single-use bioproduction solutions that deliver faster turnaround and set-up times, require minimal validation, reduce investment and running costs, and increase flexibility of manufacturing capacity. cell culture media and services , which includes our gibco media solutions, used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable the large scale cgmp manufacturing of life saving drugs and vaccines, along with associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography , which includes poros products that deliver unmatched capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and captureselect affinity products that offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. pharma analytics , which are rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. cell therapy , which are scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy-based drugs. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 14,300 sales and service personnel including over 2,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. during 2013, 2012 and 2011, we spent $396 million, $376 million and $340 million, respectively, on research and development. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. financial statement index 14 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in all segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2013 and 2012 was as follows: (in millions) 2013 2012 analytical technologies $ 1,047.2 $ 1,014.6 specialty diagnostics 183.0 187.0 laboratory products and services 399.0 388.8 eliminations (24.9 ) (12.8 ) $ 1,604.3 $ 1,577.6 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2013 will be filled during 2014. the table above does not include backlog of life technologies which was acquired on february 3, 2014. financial statement index 15 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. in general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984. our rockford, illinois, facility is subject to a resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) corrective action program administered by the illinois environmental protection agency. we are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site. financial statement index 16 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $29 million at december 31, 2013. the liability for environmental matters associated with fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our recently acquired life technologies subsidiary also has certain environmental liabilities, including from its prior acquisitions, such as obligations for the clean-up of formerly-owned locations as well as several hazardous waste sites under state and federal environmental laws, in connection with its acquisitions of dexter corporation in 2000 and applied biosystems in 2008. life technologies has reserves accrued for these matters. unexpected results related to the investigation and clean-up of any of these sites could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address these environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the united states drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, the food and drug administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. financial statement index 17 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) number of employees we have approximately 50,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. financial statement index 18 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 45 president and chief executive officer (2001) alan j. malus 54 executive vice president (2006) mark p. stevenson 51 executive vice president (2014) seth h. hoogasian 59 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 50 senior vice president (2012) edward a. pesicka 46 senior vice president and chief commercial officer (2008) andrew j. thomson 49 senior vice president (2012) peter m. wilver 54 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 54 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. malus was appointed executive vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012 and was appointed president, laboratory products and services in january 2014. he was president, analytical technologies from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president, laboratory products from july 2008 to january 2012 and was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. mr. stevenson was appointed executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions in february 2014. prior to the acquisition of life technologies, mr. stevenson was president and chief operating officer of life technologies from november 2008 to february 2014 and previously president and chief operating officer of applied biosystems, life technologies' predecessor entity, from december 2007 to november 2008. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012 and appointed president, analytical instruments in january 2014. he was president, laboratory products from january 2012 to january 2014. he was appointed president of the laboratory equipment business in august 2008, and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. pesicka was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in july 2008 and was appointed chief commercial officer in january 2014. he was president, customer channels from july 2008 to january 2014. he was president, research market from november 2006 to july 2008. mr. thomson was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in february 2012. he was president of the clinical diagnostics business from october 2009 to may 2012 and was vice president and general manager for north america for the microbiology business from january 2009 until october 2009. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president and chief financial officer from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. financial statement index 19 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 4. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of: reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. financial statement index 20 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) for example, recent developments in europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. this debt crisis and related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european customers and reducing our u.s. dollar revenues as translated from the euro. in addition, the european crisis could result in customers in europe taking longer to pay for products they have purchased from us, or being unable to pay at all. the continued weakness in world economies makes the strength and timing of any economic recovery uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not deteriorate further. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. the u.s. government has been unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the budget control act of 2011. as a result, on march 1, 2013, an enforcement mechanism known as sequestration went into effect, which will trigger a total of $1.2 trillion in spending reductions over the next decade, divided between domestic and defense spending. unless congress and the administration take further action, government funding would be reduced for certain of our customers, including those who are dependent on funding from the national institutes of health, which would likely have a significant effect on these entities' spending policies. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. integrating the life technologies businesses into thermo fisher's existing businesses may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the transaction may not be fully realized. the success of the acquisition of life technologies, including the realization of anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on thermo fisher's ability to successfully combine the businesses of thermo fisher and life technologies. the integration may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees or the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or that the alignment of standards, controls, procedures and policies may adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, suppliers and employees or to fully achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the transaction. the loss of key employees could adversely affect thermo fisher's ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which life technologies operated prior to closing, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. other potential difficulties of combining the business of thermo fisher and life technologies include unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information communications and other systems. if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. integration efforts between the two companies may also divert management attention and resources. these integration matters could have an adverse effect on the company. financial statement index 21 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect product demand and the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. in addition, reported sales made in non-u.s. currencies by our international businesses, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2012, currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $227 million on the revenues of our continuing operations due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services, and in 2013, currency translation had an unfavorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of $36 million. healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the patient protection and affordable care act could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. with our recent acquisition of life technologies, we have become party to several lawsuits in which plaintiffs claim we infringe their intellectual property. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. financial statement index 22 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) if our security products do not operate as designed and fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $12.50 billion and $1.34 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2013 and we will record additional goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in connection with the life technologies acquisition. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. financial statement index 23 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. for example, some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties. new regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. on august 22, 2012, the sec adopted a new rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. the new rule, which is effective for 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by may 31, 2014, will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. as our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. financial statement index 24 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $10.49 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $1.50 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit and a $5.00 billion term facility that we entered into to partially finance the life technologies acquisition (which we drew down in the first quarter of 2014). we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. financial statement index 25 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility and the term credit facility that we entered into to partially finance the life technologies acquisition include a total debt-to-ebitda ratio and an interest coverage ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under either facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under either facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the revolving credit facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 5.5 to 1.0 during the first six months after the closing date of the life technologies acquisition (which was february 3, 2014) and decreasing, based on the passage of time, to 3.5 to 1.0, after 18 months or the consolidated interest coverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense) to be less than 3.0 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, chinese yuan, australian dollars and swedish krona. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2013, the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2013 was $10.60 billion (see note 12). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2013 would increase by approximately $523 million. if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2013 would decrease by approximately $482 million. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. a 100-basis -point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2013 would increase the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $9 million. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in swedish krona, euro, british pounds sterling, danish krone and canadian dollars. the effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2013 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $758 million. financial statement index 51 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2013 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $85 million. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2013 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $85 million. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2013 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $16 million on the company's net income.risk factors 17 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes three primary businesses biosciences, genetic, medical &amp; applied sciences, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and diagnose disease. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media and reagents for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. financial statement index 4 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. genetic, medical &amp; applied sciences our genetic, medical and applied sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to analyze dna across a broad range of applications in research, clinical and applied markets. our genetic, medical and applied sciences offerings include: capillary electrophoresis (ce), quantitative pcr (qpcr), and next generation sequencing (ngs) platforms and reagents. these products are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the dna structure of organisms, and to verify the composition of genetic research material. in addition to research, these genetic analysis techniques are used in diverse applied markets including human identification (hid), animal health and food safety. for example, in hid we provide our instrument platforms and reagents to forensic laboratories that analyze dna recovered from crime scenes. primary customers include the fbi and police departments around the world. our technologies are also used in numerous clinical research and diagnostic applications with a focus on cancer and inherited disease. these applications include molecular diagnostics, diagnostic development, clinical and translational research, and public health monitoring. pcr and real-time pcr systems, reagents and assays that enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (dna and rna molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing process) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver unmatched capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. financial statement index 5 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes two primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, and chemical analysis. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns. mass spectrometry (ms) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; inorganic mass spectrometry systems; and elemental analysis instrumentation; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our hybrid (lc/ms/ms) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, quadrupole and orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. our comprehensive array of consumables and environmental sampling products complete the workflow solution. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial qa/qc. ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. financial statement index 6 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. our elemental analysis spectrometers include two product lines: atomic absorption (aa) and inductively coupled plasma (icp) systems, which use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into five main categories: materials and minerals; molecular spectroscopy; portable analytical instruments; radiation measurement and security instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. we also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into five primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ftir), raman, near-infrared (nir), ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis), and nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use xrf technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, ftir and nir technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. financial statement index 7 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates in compliance with regulated emissions standards. our products are also used in process monitoring applications by customers in natural gas, petrochemical, refining, bioprocessing, and a wide variety of other industrial markets to provide measurements that improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. financial statement index 8 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. unlike skin prick tests, our in vitro allergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. in addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. these allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, elisa, flow, and multiplexing technologies. financial statement index 9 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, research and safety market channel, and biopharma services. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis, with product categories including: sample preparation and preservation equipment protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. this offering includes a comprehensive range of incubators and other related products. cold storage equipment such as our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks maintain samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. centrifugation products are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. our broad range includes microcentrifuges, which are used primarily for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory; general use bench-top centrifuges for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine; and our floor models, which are used for large-volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification. biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. these cabinets, equipped with filtered-air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, can be used for tissue culture; handling of infectious samples; forensic analysis; bioterrorism research; and other applications. temperature control products include heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. water analysis instruments include meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products or processes are critical, such as qa/qc in the food and beverage industry, chemical and pharmaceutical production, and for environmental compliance. other laboratory equipment includes water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. financial statement index 10 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research; drug discovery and development; quality and process control; and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. cell culture and bioproduction products support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, and research serum and media products. these products are widely used in research and in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. sample preparation and storage products include a full line of centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding. we also offer containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. liquid handling products include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. detection instruments include microplate readers, washers and purification systems. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. specialty products and services include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we also manufacture plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. global chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; and novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. financial statement index 11 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our broad sales force, printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 417,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. thermo fisher's biobanking business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biobanking services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 17,500 sales and service personnel including over 3,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. financial statement index 12 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. during 2014, 2013 and 2012, we spent $691 million, $396 million and $376 million, respectively, on research and development. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in all segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. financial statement index 13 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2014 and 2013 was as follows: (in millions) 2014 2013 life sciences solutions $ 365.5 $ 111.5 analytical instruments 948.0 921.5 specialty diagnostics 189.7 183.0 laboratory products and services 442.6 409.4 eliminations (22.7 ) (21.1 ) $ 1,923.1 $ 1,604.3 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2014 will be filled during 2015. government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. financial statement index 14 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the u.s. environmental protection agency (usepa) to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $32 million at december 31, 2014. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. financial statement index 15 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have approximately 51,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 46 president and chief executive officer (2001) alan j. malus 55 executive vice president (2006) mark p. stevenson 52 executive vice president (2014) seth h. hoogasian 60 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 51 senior vice president (2012) andrew j. thomson 50 senior vice president (2012) peter m. wilver 55 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2003) peter e. hornstra 55 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. malus was appointed executive vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012 and was appointed president, laboratory products and services in january 2014. he was president, analytical technologies from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president, laboratory products from july 2008 to january 2012, president, customer channels from november 2006 to july 2008 and was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. financial statement index 16 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) mr. stevenson was appointed executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions in february 2014. prior to the acquisition of life technologies, mr. stevenson was president and chief operating officer of life technologies from november 2008 to february 2014 and previously president and chief operating officer of applied biosystems, life technologies' predecessor entity, from december 2007 to november 2008. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012 and appointed president, analytical instruments in january 2014. he was president, laboratory products from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president of the laboratory equipment business from august 2008 to december 2011 and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. thomson was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in february 2012. he was president of the clinical diagnostics business from october 2009 to may 2012 and was vice president and general manager for north america for the microbiology business from january 2009 until october 2009. mr. wilver was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and chief financial officer in october 2004. he was vice president and chief financial officer from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. wilver is retiring from the company on march 31, 2016, and will cease to be the senior vice president and chief financial officer on august 1, 2015. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 4. we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: financial statement index 17 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of: reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. for example, recent developments in europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. this debt crisis could result in customers in europe taking longer to pay for products they have purchased from us, or being unable to pay at all. the continued weakness in world economies makes the strength and timing of any economic recovery uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not deteriorate further. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. in fiscal year 2013, the u.s. government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the budget control act of 2011. as a result, in early 2013, an enforcement mechanism known as sequestration went into effect, which triggered one year of budget reductions. despite agreement not to impose similar cuts in fiscal years 2014 and 2015, it is possible that congress will allow similar cuts to occur again in fiscal year 2016 and beyond. unless congress and the administration take further action, government funding would be reduced for certain of our customers, including those who are dependent on funding from the national institutes of health, which would likely have a significant effect on these entities' spending policies. these policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. financial statement index 18 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) integrating the life technologies businesses into thermo fisher's existing businesses may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the transaction may not be fully realized. the success of the acquisition of life technologies, including the realization of anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of thermo fisher and life technologies. the integration may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees or the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or that the alignment of standards, controls, procedures and policies may adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, suppliers and employees or to fully achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the transaction. the loss of key employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business in the markets in which life technologies operated prior to closing, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. other potential difficulties of combining the business of thermo fisher and life technologies include unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information communications and other systems. if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. these integration matters could have an adverse effect on the company. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2013, currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $36 million on the revenues of our continuing operations due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services, and in 2014, currency translation had an unfavorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of $60 million. for 2015, the company is expecting a significant negative impact on revenues and operating income due to the stronger u.s. dollar. healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the patient protection and affordable care act could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. financial statement index 19 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. with our acquisition of life technologies, we became party to several lawsuits in which plaintiffs claim we infringe their intellectual property (note 10). we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if our security products do not operate as designed and fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. financial statement index 20 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $18.84 billion and $1.30 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2014. in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $14.11 billion as of december 31, 2014. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability . we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. for example, some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties. financial statement index 21 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. in 2012 the sec adopted a rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. the rule requires an annual disclosure report to be filed, and requires companies to perform due diligence and disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. as our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we undertake, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which makes us susceptible to earthquake risk. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. financial statement index 22 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $14.56 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.00 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility and the term credit facility that we entered into to partially finance the life technologies acquisition include a total debt-to-ebitda ratio and an interest coverage ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under either facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under either facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the revolving credit facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 4.5 to 1.0 until february 2015 and decreasing, based on the passage of time, to 3.5 to 1.0, by august 2015 or the consolidated interest coverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense) to be less than 3.0 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, japanese yen, norwegian kroner and swedish kronor. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2014, the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2014 was $14.89 billion (see note 12). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2014 would increase by approximately $683 million. if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2014 would decrease by approximately $629 million. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including a term loan agreement and swap arrangements. in 2014, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the term loan and swap arrangements would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $35 million. financial statement index 48 table of contents thermo fisher scientific inc. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, danish kroner and canadian dollars. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2014 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $1.04 billion. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2014 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $110 million. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2014 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $110 million. the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2014 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $23 million on the company's net income.risk factors 15 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes three primary businesses biosciences, genetic sciences and next-generation sequencing, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media and reagents for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. genetic sciences and next-generation sequencing our genetic, medical and applied sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to analyze dna across a broad range of applications in research, clinical and applied markets. our genetic, medical and applied sciences offerings include: capillary electrophoresis (ce), quantitative polymerase chain reaction (pcr), and next generation sequencing (ngs) platforms and reagents. these products are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the dna structure of organisms, and to verify the composition of genetic research material. in addition to research, these genetic analysis techniques are used in diverse applied markets including human identification (hid), animal health and food safety. for example, in hid we provide our instrument platforms and reagents to forensic laboratories that analyze dna recovered from crime scenes. primary customers include the fbi and police departments around the world. our technologies are also used in numerous clinical research and diagnostic applications with a focus on cancer and inherited disease. these applications include molecular diagnostics, diagnostic development, clinical and translational research, and public health monitoring. 4 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) pcr and real-time pcr systems, reagents and assays that enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (dna and rna molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing processes) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver unmatched capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes three primary businesses chromatography and analytical technologies, mass spectrometry, and chemical analysis. chromatography and analytical technologies our chromatography and analytical technologies business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. our comprehensive array of consumables and environmental sampling products complete the workflow solution. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial qa/qc. ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. 5 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) elemental analysis spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. mass spectrometry mass spectrometry (ms) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our hybrid (lc/ms/ms) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, quadrupole and orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into five main categories: materials and minerals; molecular spectroscopy; portable analytical instruments; radiation measurement and security instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. we also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into five primary techniques: fourier transform infrared (ftir), raman, near-infrared (nir), ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis), and nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. 6 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use xrf technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, ftir and nir technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates in compliance with regulated emissions standards. our products are also used in process monitoring applications by customers in natural gas, petrochemical, refining, bioprocessing, and a wide variety of other industrial markets to provide measurements that improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. unlike skin prick tests, our in vitro allergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. in addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. these allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. 7 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, elisa, flow, and multiplexing technologies. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties. healthcare market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through five key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, global chemicals, research and safety market channel, and biopharma services. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and 8 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: controlled temperature technologies products include our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. we also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. growth protection and separation products include sample preparation and preservation equipment which protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. we also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. water and laboratory products include water analysis instruments such as meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. we also offer other laboratory equipment such as water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research, drug discovery and development, quality and process control, and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. laboratory and specialty plastics include cell culture and bioproduction products which support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, and research serum and media products. these products are widely used in research and in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. we also offer sample preparation and storage products such as centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding and containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. additionally, our offerings include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers, plastic transfer pipettes, general purpose clinical laboratory consumables and containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we also provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. liquid handling consumables include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. we also offer detection instruments such as microplate readers, washers and purification systems. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. specialty products and services include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. we also manufacture plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. we also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. in addition, we provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. global chemicals global chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and 9 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery; and precious metals, salts and solutions used in a broad range of applications where highly specific reactions are desired. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our broad sales force, printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 600,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including comparator sourcing; specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. thermo fisher's biobanking business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biobanking services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 12,000 sales personnel including highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we spent $692 million , $691 million and $396 million , respectively, on research and 10 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) development. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in all segments of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2015 and 2014 was as follows: (in millions) 2015 2014 life sciences solutions $ 400.8 $ 365.5 analytical instruments 893.2 948.0 specialty diagnostics 165.1 189.7 laboratory products and services 456.6 442.6 eliminations (29.5 ) (22.7 ) $ 1,886.2 $ 1,923.1 backlog at year-end 2015 compared to the 2014 balance was affected by unfavorable currency translation. we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2015 will be filled during 2016 . government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. 11 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the u.s. environmental protection agency (usepa) to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $35 million at december 31, 2015 . these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of 12 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have approximately 52,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 81 wyman street, waltham, massachusetts 02451. 13 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 47 president and chief executive officer (2001) alan j. malus 56 executive vice president (2006) mark p. stevenson 53 executive vice president (2014) peter m. wilver 56 executive vice president and chief administrative officer (2003) patrick m. durbin 49 senior vice president (2015) seth h. hoogasian 61 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 52 senior vice president and chief commercial officer (2012) daniel p. shine 47 senior vice president (2016) stephen williamson 49 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2015) peter e. hornstra 56 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. malus was appointed executive vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012 and was appointed president, laboratory products and services in january 2014. he was president, analytical technologies from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president, laboratory products from july 2008 to january 2012, president, customer channels from november 2006 to july 2008 and was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in november 2006. mr. malus is retiring from the company on june 1, 2016. mr. stevenson was appointed executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions in february 2014. prior to the acquisition of life technologies corporation ( life technologies ), mr. stevenson was president and chief operating officer of life technologies from november 2008 to february 2014 and previously president and chief operating officer of applied biosystems, life technologies' predecessor entity, from december 2007 to november 2008. mr. wilver was appointed executive vice president and chief administrative officer in august 2015. he was senior vice president and chief financial officer from november 2006 to august 2015. he was vice president and chief financial officer from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. durbin was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in october 2015. he was president of the biopharma services business from january 2010 to october 2015. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed chief commercial officer in january 2016 and senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012. he was president, analytical instruments from january 2014 to january 2016 and president, laboratory products from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president of the laboratory equipment business from august 2008 to december 2011 and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. shine was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, analytical instruments in january 2016. he was president of the chromatography and mass spectrometry business from november 2012 to january 2016. he was president of the chemical analysis business from july 2011 to november 2012 and president of the process instruments business from april 2007 to july 2011. mr. williamson was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. he was vice president of financial operations from may 2008 to august 2015. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. 14 thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in item 1. business under the caption "forward-looking statements". we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth . some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. for example, recent developments in europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. this debt crisis could result in customers in europe taking longer to pay for products they have purchased from us, or being unable to pay at all. the continued weakness in world 15 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) economies makes the strength and timing of any economic recovery uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not deteriorate further. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. in fiscal year 2013, the u.s. government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the budget control act of 2011. as a result, in early 2013, an enforcement mechanism known as sequestration went into effect, which triggered one year of budget reductions. in subsequent years, statutory spending caps have constrained federal funding levels. despite agreement not to impose similar cuts in fiscal years 2014 through 2017, it is possible that congress will allow similar cuts to occur again in fiscal year 2018 and beyond. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2015 , currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $938 million on revenues due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. for 2016 , the company is expecting a significant negative impact on revenues and operating income due to the stronger u.s. dollar. healthcare reform legislation could adversely impact us. the patient protection and affordable care act could have an adverse impact on us. some of the potential consequences, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes to the delivery or pricing of healthcare services or products or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. with our acquisition of life technologies, we became party to several lawsuits in which plaintiffs claim we infringe their intellectual property (note 10 ). we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making 16 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if our security products do not operate as designed and fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $18.83 billion and $1.25 billion , respectively, as of december 31, 2015 . in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $11.51 billion as of december 31, 2015 . we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. 17 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. for example, some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties. regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products . in 2012 the sec adopted a rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. the rule requires an annual disclosure report to be filed, and requires companies to perform due diligence and disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. as our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we undertake, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which make us susceptible to earthquake risk. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective 18 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations . as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $12.53 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.00 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility include a total debt-to-ebitda ratio and an interest coverage ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.5 to 1.0 or the consolidated interest coverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense) to be less than 3.0 to 1.0. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. 19 thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, swiss franc, japanese yen, norwegian kroner, and swedish kronor. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2015 , the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2015 was $12.68 billion (see note 12 ). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2015 would increase by approximately $630 million . if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2015 would decrease by approximately $581 million . in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. in 2015 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $33 million . currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, danish kroner and canadian dollars. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2015 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $1.11 billion . the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2015 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $6 million . a 10% appreciation in year-end 2015 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $9 million . the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2015 non- 39 thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $18 million on the company's net income.risk factors 15 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes four primary businesses biosciences, genetic sciences, clinical next-generation sequencing, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media and reagents for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. 4 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) genetic sciences our genetic sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to provide high-value genomic solutions to assist customer decisions in the research, clinical and applied markets. our offerings include real-time pcr technology used to identify changes in gene expression, genotyping or proteins on an individual gene-by-gene basis; capillary electrophoresis (ce) sequencing, core technology used in dna sequencing and fragment analysis applications; and microarray technology, used in gene expression, genotyping and reproductive health. our genetic analyzers served as the foundational platform used to sequence the first human genome. these systems are used in a variety of basic, commercial and clinical research applications. clinical next-generation sequencing our clinical next-generation sequencing (ngs) business focuses on delivering simple, fast and cost-effective ngs technology for a range of applications. the business is focused on targeted sequencing solutions for research use; the application of ngs in oncology; and is an enabling technology and service provider for other businesses within thermo fisher. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing processes) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver unmatched capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes three primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, and materials and structural analysis. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry (ms) business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis across both applied technologies and life science research. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns; and a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ 5 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial quality assurance and quality control (qa/qc). ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, an orbitrap, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. elemental analysis spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include three major technologies: triple quadrupole, ion trap and orbitrap technology. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. our orbitrap technologies provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into four main categories: materials and minerals; portable analytical instruments; radiation measurement and security instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows primarily in industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used on production lines to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time chemical identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include production line process monitoring, and control systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, we offer on line instruments that analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time to improve quality control and ensure safe operation in a mine or cement manufacturing plant, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. 6 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf) technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, fourier transform infrared (ftir) and near-infrared (nir) technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, and stack gas emissions for compliance with regulated emissions standards for criteria pollutant gases. our products are also used in ambient particulate monitoring applications by customers in mining environments to provide continuous measurements and logging of real-time concentrations and median particle sizes of airborne dust, smoke, mist and fumes to improve efficiency and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. materials and structural analysis our materials and structural analysis business, primarily comprised of our fei acquisition, includes electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy and laboratory elemental analysis instruments that are used by customers in life sciences, materials sciences and industrial markets to accelerate breakthrough discoveries. electron microscopy instruments include transmission electron microscopes which provide imaging and characterization at the atomic scale, with applications in semiconductor development, materials science research and the characterization of protein structure and function. we also offer scanning electron microscopes which resolve features from the optical regime down to the nanometer length scale and are used for a wide variety of applications from materials characterization in science and engineering to applications in natural resources, manufacturing, and biological systems. our dual beam focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope systems are used for sample preparation, 3d characterization, nanoprototyping, and industrial failure analysis. our focused ion beam microscopes are used in a range of process control, failure analysis, and materials research applications. we also offer electrical failure analysis instruments which are used in root cause failure analysis and quality control, microct instruments which are micro-computed tomography solutions for quantitative analysis of a broad range of materials, providing 3d visualization of large volumes non-destructively and 3d visualization software that turns the data and images generated by a broad range of instruments into 3d visualizations of the microscopic sample, allowing quantitative analysis of material properties. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into four primary techniques: ftir, raman, nir and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. laboratory elemental analysis instruments and analyzers use xrf, x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. 7 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. in addition, we offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, 8 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (elisa), flow, and multiplexing technologies. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties and are primarily used in clinical diagnosis. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through five key businesses: laboratory equipment, laboratory consumables, global chemicals, research and safety market channel, and biopharma services. laboratory equipment our laboratory equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: controlled temperature technologies products include our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. we also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. growth protection and separation products include sample preparation and preservation equipment which protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. we also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. water and laboratory products include water analysis instruments such as meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. we also offer other laboratory equipment such as water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory consumables our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research, drug discovery and development, quality and process control, and clinical and basic research and development needs. our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services. laboratory and specialty plastics include cell culture and bioproduction products which support customers in research to production-scale activities. we offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, 9 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. we also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, and research serum and media products. these products are widely used in research and in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics. we also offer sample preparation and storage products such as centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding and containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. additionally, our offerings include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers, plastic transfer pipettes, general purpose clinical laboratory consumables and containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we also provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. liquid handling consumables include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. we also offer detection instruments such as microplate readers, washers and purification systems. these instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results. global chemicals global chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery; and precious metals, salts and solutions used in a broad range of applications where highly specific reactions are desired. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our broad sales force, printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 650,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. the fisher scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management 10 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. biopharma services our biopharma services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including comparator sourcing; specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. thermo fisher's biobanking business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. our biobanking services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 11,000 sales personnel including highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we spent $755 million , $692 million and $691 million , respectively, on research and development. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in many aspects of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. 11 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2016 and 2015 was as follows: (in millions) 2016 2015 life sciences solutions $ 470.9 $ 400.8 analytical instruments 1,701.2 892.2 specialty diagnostics 171.1 165.1 laboratory products and services 473.0 456.6 eliminations (23.2 ) (28.5 ) $ 2,793.0 $ 1,886.2 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2016 will be filled during 2017 . government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. 12 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the u.s. environmental protection agency (usepa) to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $49 million at december 31, 2016 . these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have approximately 55,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 13 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 168 third avenue, waltham, massachusetts 02451. executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 48 president and chief executive officer (2001) mark p. stevenson 54 executive vice president (2014) peter m. wilver 57 executive vice president and chief administrative officer (2003) patrick m. durbin 50 senior vice president (2015) seth h. hoogasian 62 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary (2001) thomas w. loewald 53 senior vice president and chief commercial officer (2012) daniel p. shine 48 senior vice president (2016) stephen williamson 50 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2015) peter e. hornstra 57 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. stevenson was appointed executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions in february 2014. prior to the acquisition of life technologies corporation ( life technologies ), mr. stevenson was president and chief operating officer of life technologies from november 2008 to february 2014 and previously president and chief operating officer of applied biosystems, life technologies' predecessor entity, from december 2007 to november 2008. mr. wilver was appointed executive vice president and chief administrative officer in august 2015. he was senior vice president and chief financial officer from november 2006 to august 2015. he was vice president and chief financial officer from october 2004 to november 2006. mr. wilver is retiring from the company on march 31, 2017. mr. durbin was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in october 2015. he was president of the biopharma services business from january 2010 to october 2015. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006, secretary in 2001 and general counsel in 1992. he was vice president from 1996 to november 2006. mr. loewald was appointed chief commercial officer in january 2016 and senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific in january 2012. he was president, analytical instruments from january 2014 to january 2016 and president, laboratory products from january 2012 to january 2014. he was president of the laboratory equipment business from august 2008 to december 2011 and was president of the environmental instruments business from october 2006 until august 2008. mr. shine was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, analytical instruments in january 2016. he was president of the chromatography and mass spectrometry business from november 2012 to january 2016. he was president of the chemical analysis business from july 2011 to november 2012 and president of the process instruments business from april 2007 to july 2011. mr. williamson was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. he was vice president of financial operations from may 2008 to august 2015. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. 14 thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in item 1. business under the caption "forward-looking statements". we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth . some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. 15 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. should our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2016 , currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $145 million on revenues due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. significant developments stemming from the recent u.s. presidential election or the u.k.'s referendum on membership in the eu could have an adverse effect on us. the new u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement (nafta), and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the united states, particularly from china and mexico. the new administration has also indicated an intention to request congress to make significant changes, replacement or elimination of the patient protection and affordable care act, and government negotiation/regulation of drug prices paid by government programs. changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing the health care system and drug prices, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business. additionally, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the european union, or eu. this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the eu, and this uncertainty may last for years. our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. in addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the united kingdom. these possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the united kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the eu, may adversely affect our operating results and our customers' businesses. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. our life technologies subsidiary is party to several lawsuits in which plaintiffs claim we infringe their intellectual property (note 10 ). we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. 16 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. if our security products do not operate as designed and fail to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $21.33 billion and $1.34 billion , respectively, as of december 31, 2016 . in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $12.63 billion as of december 31, 2016 . we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we 17 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. for example, some of our operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. food and drug administration and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with the u.s. food and drug administration's regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and/or cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which make us susceptible to earthquake risk. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could disrupt our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track 18 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. any of the cyber-attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased cost for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $16.63 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.50 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other entities, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility and our term facility (each, a facility and together, the facilities ) include a total debt-to-consolidated ebitda ratio and an interest coverage ratio. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the revolving credit facility, any letter of credit is outstanding under the revolving credit facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the revolving credit facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility) the consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda) to be greater than 4.5 to 1.0 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter for the first two consecutive quarters following the acquisition of fei (see note 2 ), with such ratio stepping down to 4.0 to 1.0 for the two immediately following fiscal quarters and then stepping down to 3.5 to 1.0 for each fiscal quarter thereafter. the company's term facility includes consolidated leverage ratio covenants substantively the same as the covenant included in the revolving credit facility. the company has also agreed that so long as any lender has any commitment under the revolving credit facility or any letter of credit is outstanding under the revolving credit facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under any facility (including the term loan and bridge facilities), it will not permit the consolidated interest coverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense) to be less than 3.0 to 1.0 as at the last day of any fiscal quarter. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, swiss franc, japanese yen, norwegian kroner, and swedish kronor. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2016 , the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2016 was $16.98 billion (see note 12 ). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2016 would increase by approximately $840 million . if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2016 would decrease by approximately $802 million . in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. in 2016 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements and variable-rate debt would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $42 million . currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, danish kroner, canadian dollars and swiss franc. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2016 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $1.19 billion . the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2016 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $126 million . a 10% appreciation in year-end 2016 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $117 million . the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2016 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $36 million on the company's net income. 40 thermo fisher scientific inc.risk factors 15 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. for financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements , which begin on page f-1 of this report. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes four primary businesses biosciences, genetic sciences, clinical next-generation sequencing, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, sample preparation and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media, reagents, and plastics for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. 4 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. genetic sciences our genetic sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to provide high-value genomic solutions to assist customer decisions in the research, clinical and applied markets. our offerings include real-time pcr technology used to identify changes in gene expression, genotyping or proteins on an individual gene-by-gene basis; capillary electrophoresis (ce) sequencing, core technology used in dna sequencing and fragment analysis applications; and microarray technology, used in gene expression, genotyping and reproductive health. our genetic analyzers served as the foundational platform used to sequence the first human genome. these systems are used in a variety of basic, commercial and clinical research applications. clinical next-generation sequencing our clinical next-generation sequencing (ngs) business focuses on delivering simple, fast and cost-effective ngs technology for a range of applications. the business is focused on targeted sequencing solutions for research use; the application of ngs in oncology; and is an enabling technology for other businesses within thermo fisher. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing practices) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver superior capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that provide primarily life science manufacturers with reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw material. analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes three primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, and materials and structural analysis. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry (ms) business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis across both applied technologies and life science research. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns; and a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance 5 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial quality assurance and quality control (qa/qc). ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, an orbitrap, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. elemental analysis spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include triple quadrupole and orbitrap technologies. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our orbitrap technologies provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector isotope ratio mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into four main categories: materials and minerals; portable analytical instruments; radiation measurement and security instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows primarily in industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used on production lines to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time chemical identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include production line process monitoring, and control systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, we offer on-line instruments that analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time to improve quality control and ensure safe operation in a mine or cement manufacturing plant, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of 6 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf) technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, fourier transform infrared (ftir) and near-infrared (nir) technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, and stack gas emissions for compliance with regulated emissions standards for criteria pollutant gases. our products are also used in ambient particulate monitoring applications by customers in mining environments to provide continuous measurements and logging of real-time concentrations and median particle sizes of airborne dust, smoke, mist and fumes to improve efficiency and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. materials and structural analysis our materials and structural analysis business includes electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy and laboratory elemental analysis instruments that are used by customers in life sciences, materials sciences and industrial markets to accelerate breakthrough discoveries. electron microscopy instruments include transmission electron microscopes which provide imaging and characterization at the atomic scale, with applications in semiconductor development, materials science research and the characterization of protein structure and function. we also offer scanning electron microscopes which resolve features from the optical regime down to the nanometer length scale and are used for a wide variety of applications from materials characterization in science and engineering to applications in natural resources, manufacturing, and biological systems. our dualbeam focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope systems are used for sample preparation, 3d characterization, nanoprototyping, and industrial failure analysis. our focused ion beam microscopes are used in a range of process control, failure analysis, and materials research applications. we also offer electrical failure analysis instruments which are used in root cause failure analysis and quality control, microct instruments which are micro-computed tomography solutions for quantitative analysis of a broad range of materials, providing 3d visualization of large volumes non-destructively and 3d visualization software that turns the data and images generated by a broad range of instruments into 3d visualizations of the microscopic sample, allowing quantitative analysis of material properties. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into four primary techniques: ftir, raman, nir and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. laboratory elemental analysis instruments and analyzers use xrf, x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. 7 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. in addition, we offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, 8 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (elisa), flow, and multiplexing technologies. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties and are primarily used in clinical diagnosis. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering, enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory products, laboratory chemicals, research and safety market channel, and pharma services. laboratory products our laboratory products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: laboratory equipment technologies includes our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. we also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. in addition, we offer sample preparation and preservation equipment, which protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. we also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. water and laboratory products include water analysis instruments such as meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. we also offer other laboratory equipment such as water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory plastics essentials include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low-through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. we also offer sample preparation and storage products such as centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding and containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. additionally, our offerings include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection products, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers, plastic transfer pipettes, general purpose clinical laboratory consumables and containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we also provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. 9 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) laboratory chemicals our laboratory chemicals comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high-purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery; and precious metals, salts and solutions used in a broad range of applications where highly specific reactions are desired. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our expert sales force, segment-relevant printed collateral and digital content in five languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 1.5 million products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. pharma services we provide the entire spectrum of development, manufacturing and clinical trials services for both small-molecule and large-molecule pharmaceuticals. this includes i) development of a suitable formulation and manufacturing process for the active pharmaceutical ingredient (api) or biologic; ii) technology transfer to scale up the manufacturing; iii) labeling, packaging, distribution and logistics for clinical trials; and iv) commercial scale manufacturing and packaging. drug substance services - our service offerings address small molecules, produced through chemical synthesis, and large molecules such as antibodies and proteins produced through mammalian cell culture. we provide development and manufacturing services for small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis) and the biologically active component of pharmaceutical products under current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) conditions from early development through commercial production. drug product services - we manufacture both small-molecule and large-molecule products for customers in conventional and specialized dosage forms. we differentiate ourselves by our breadth of dosage forms and specialized capabilities in both oral solid and sterile dosage forms. we provide a wide spectrum of advanced formulation, production and technical services and scientific expertise and solutions, from the early stages of a product's development to regulatory approval and commercial scale production. clinical trials services - we provide global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including comparator sourcing; specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized 10 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management and biobanking services; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 12,000 sales personnel including highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. during 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we incurred $888 million , $755 million and $692 million , respectively, of expense on research and development. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in many aspects of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. 11 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2017 and 2016 was as follows: (in millions) 2017 2016 life sciences solutions $ 594 $ 528 analytical instruments 2,050 1,701 specialty diagnostics 158 171 laboratory products and services 1,679 416 eliminations (20 ) (23 ) $ 4,461 $ 2,793 we believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2017 will be filled during 2018 . government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. 12 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the u.s. environmental protection agency (usepa) to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $52 million at december 31, 2017 . these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have approximately 70,000 employees. financial information about geographic areas financial information about geographic areas is summarized in note 3 to our consolidated financial statements , which begin on page f-1 of this report. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 13 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 168 third avenue, waltham, massachusetts 02451. executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) marc n. casper 49 president and chief executive officer (2001) mark p. stevenson 55 executive vice president and chief operating officer (2014) michael a. boxer 56 senior vice president and general counsel (2018) patrick m. durbin 51 senior vice president (2015) gregory j. herrema 52 senior vice president (2017) seth h. hoogasian 63 senior vice president and retiring general counsel (2001) michel lagarde 44 senior vice president (2017) stephen williamson 51 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2015) peter e. hornstra 58 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) mr. casper was appointed president and chief executive officer in october 2009. he was chief operating officer from may 2008 to october 2009 and executive vice president from november 2006 to october 2009. he was senior vice president from december 2003 to november 2006. from december 2001 to december 2003 he was vice president. mr. stevenson was appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer in august 2017. he was executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions from february 2014 to august 2017. prior to the acquisition of life technologies corporation ("life technologies"), mr. stevenson was president and chief operating officer of life technologies from november 2008 to february 2014. mr. boxer joined the company as senior vice president and general counsel in january 2018. prior to joining the company, mr. boxer was executive vice president and group general counsel at luxottica, a leading global vision care company, from may 2011 to december 2017, and prior to that he held various positions of increasing responsibility at luxottica. mr. durbin was appointed senior vice president of thermo fisher scientific and president, specialty diagnostics in october 2015. he was president of the biopharma services business from january 2010 to october 2015. mr. herrema was appointed senior vice president and president, customer channels in january 2014. he was president, biosciences from 2012 to 2014. mr. hoogasian was appointed senior vice president in november 2006 and general counsel in 1992. he was secretary from 2001 to 2017. mr. hoogasian is retiring from the company on march 30, 2018. mr. lagarde joined thermo fisher scientific in august 2017 through the acquisition of patheon and was appointed senior vice president and president, pharma services. from may 2016 to august 2017, mr. lagarde served as president and chief operating officer at patheon. from january 2008 to may 2016, mr. lagarde was managing director at jll partners, a private equity firm focused on healthcare. mr. williamson was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. he was vice president of financial operations from may 2008 to august 2015. mr. hornstra was appointed vice president in february 2007 and chief accounting officer in january 2001. he was corporate controller from january 1996 to february 2007. 14 thermo fisher scientific inc. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in item 1. business under the caption "forward-looking statements". we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending 15 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the "functional currency"). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. as our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2017 , currency translation had a favorable effect of $70 million on revenues due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. significant developments stemming from the u.s. administration or the u.k.'s referendum on membership in the eu could have an adverse effect on us. the u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement (nafta), and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the united states, particularly from china and mexico. the administration has also indicated an intention to request congress to make significant changes, replacement or elimination of the patient protection and affordable care act, and government negotiation/regulation of drug prices paid by government programs. changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing the health care system and drug prices, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business. additionally, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the european union, or eu. this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the eu, and this uncertainty may last for years. our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. in addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the united kingdom. these possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the united kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the eu, may adversely affect our operating results and our customers' businesses. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. our life technologies subsidiary is party to several lawsuits in which plaintiffs claim we infringe their intellectual property (note 10 ). we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which could have a material 16 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, parties making these claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the united states or abroad. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. our pharma services offerings are highly complex, and if we are unable to provide quality and timely offerings to our customers, our business could suffer. our pharma services offerings are highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict quality and regulatory requirements. our operating results in this business depend on our ability to execute and, when necessary, improve our quality management strategy and systems, and our ability to effectively train and maintain our employee base with respect to quality management. a failure of our quality control systems could result in problems with facility operations or preparation or provision of products. in each case, such problems could arise for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors and damage to, or loss of, manufacturing operations. such problems could affect production of a particular batch or series of batches of products, requiring the destruction of such products or a halt of facility production altogether. in addition, our failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers, which in turn could damage our reputation for quality and service. any such failure could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug product, registered intermediates, registered starting materials, and active pharmaceutical ingredients, other customer claims, damage to and possibly termination of existing customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. production problems in our drug and biologic manufacturing operations could be particularly significant because the cost of raw materials for such manufacturing is often high. if problems in preparation or manufacture of a product or failures to meet required quality standards for that product are not discovered before such product is released to the market, we may be subject to adverse regulatory actions, including product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil sanctions, including monetary sanctions, and criminal actions. in addition, such problems or failures could subject us to litigation claims, including claims from our customers for reimbursement for the cost of lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, the cost of which could be significant. we are subject to product and other liability risks for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. we may be named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which may allege that products or services we have provided from our pharma services offerings have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to consumers. additionally, products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete any pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for 17 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $25.29 billion and $1.27 billion , respectively, as of december 31, 2017 . in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $15.41 billion as of december 31, 2017 . we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. we are subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the u.s. federal drug administration (the fda), the u.s. drug enforcement agency (the dea), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the u.s. department of health and human services (the dhhs), the european medicines agency (the ema), in europe, the eu member states and other comparable agencies and, in the future, any changes to such laws and regulations could adversely affect us. in particular, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning current good manufacturing practices and drug safety. our subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and may be required to comply with the laws and regulations of the dea, the fda, the dhhs, foreign agencies including the ema, and other various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. 18 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) the manufacture, distribution and marketing of many of our products and services, including medical devices and pharma services, are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the fda, the dea, the ema, and other equivalent local, state, federal and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. in addition, we are subject to inspections by these regulatory authorities. failure by us or by our customers to comply with the requirements of these regulatory authorities, including without limitation, remediating any inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing or denial of pending approvals, including those relating to products or facilities. in addition, such a failure could expose us to contractual or product liability claims, contractual claims from our customers, including claims for reimbursement for lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as ongoing remediation and increased compliance costs, any or all of which could be significant. we are the sole manufacturer of a number of pharmaceuticals for many of our customers and a negative regulatory event could impact our customers' ability to provide products to their customers. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, hurricanes or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which make us susceptible to earthquake risk. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could disrupt our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide services and support to customers, track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, 19 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) which could harm our reputation and financial results. any of the cyber-attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above, if significant, could materially interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer, business partner and employee relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased cost for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $21.01 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.50 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other entities, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility (the facility) include a consolidated leverage ratio (total debt-to-consolidated ebitda) and a consolidated interest coverage ratio (consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense), as such terms are defined in the facility. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 4.0 :1.0 for the first and second quarters of 2018 and then stepping down to 3.5 :1.0 for the third quarter of 2018 and thereafter. the company has also agreed that so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.0 :1.0 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, norwegian kroner, swiss franc and canadian dollars. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2017 , the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2017 was $21.62 billion (see note 12 ). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2017 would increase by approximately $1.30 billion . if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2017 would decrease by approximately $1.20 billion . in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. in 2017 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements and variable-rate debt would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $44 million . currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, canadian dollars, danish kroner and swiss franc. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the "accumulated other comprehensive items" component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2017 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $1.55 billion . the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2017 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $130 million . a 10% appreciation in year-end 2017 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an increase in the unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $130 million . the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2017 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $34 million on the company's net income. 40 thermo fisher scientific inc.risk factors 14 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes four primary businesses biosciences, genetic sciences, clinical next-generation sequencing, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, sample preparation and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media, reagents, and plastics for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. genetic sciences our genetic sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to provide high-value genomic solutions to assist customer decisions in the research, clinical and applied markets. our offerings include real-time pcr technology used to identify changes in gene expression, genotyping or proteins on an individual gene-by-gene basis; capillary electrophoresis (ce) sequencing, a core technology used in dna sequencing and fragment analysis and forensic analysis applications; and microarray technology, used in gene expression, genotyping and reproductive health. 4 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our genetic analyzers served as the foundational platform used to sequence the first human genome. these systems are used in a variety of basic, commercial and clinical research applications. clinical next-generation sequencing our clinical next-generation sequencing (ngs) business focuses on delivering simple, fast and cost-effective ngs technology for a range of applications. the business is focused on targeted sequencing solutions for research use; the application of ngs in oncology; and is an enabling technology for other businesses within thermo fisher. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing practices) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver superior capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that provide primarily life science manufacturers with reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw material. analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes three primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, and materials and structural analysis. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry (ms) business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis across both applied technologies and life science research. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns; and a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial quality assurance and quality control (qa/qc). ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic 5 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, an orbitrap, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. elemental analysis spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include triple quadrupole and orbitrap technologies. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our orbitrap technologies provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector isotope ratio mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into four main categories: materials and minerals; portable analytical instruments; radiation measurement and security instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows primarily in industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used on production lines to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time chemical identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include production line process monitoring, and control systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, we offer on-line instruments that analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time to improve quality control and ensure safe operation in a mine or cement manufacturing plant, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. portable analytical instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. our portable elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf) technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, fourier transform infrared (ftir) and near-infrared (nir) technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify 6 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. radiation measurement and security products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, and stack gas emissions for compliance with regulated emissions standards for criteria pollutant gases. our products are also used in ambient particulate monitoring applications by customers in mining environments to provide continuous measurements and logging of real-time concentrations and median particle sizes of airborne dust, smoke, mist and fumes to improve efficiency and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. materials and structural analysis our materials and structural analysis business includes electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy and laboratory elemental analysis instruments that are used by customers in life sciences, materials sciences and industrial markets to accelerate breakthrough discoveries. electron microscopy instruments include transmission electron microscopes which provide imaging and characterization at the atomic scale, with applications in semiconductor development, materials science research and the characterization of protein structure and function. we also offer scanning electron microscopes which resolve features from the optical regime down to the nanometer length scale and are used for a wide variety of applications from materials characterization in science and engineering to applications in natural resources, manufacturing, and biological systems. our dualbeam focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope systems are used for sample preparation, 3d characterization, nanoprototyping, and industrial failure analysis. our focused ion beam microscopes are used in a range of process control, failure analysis, and materials research applications. we also offer electrical failure analysis instruments which are used in root cause failure analysis and quality control, microct instruments which are micro-computed tomography solutions for quantitative analysis of a broad range of materials, providing 3d visualization of large volumes non-destructively and 3d visualization software that turns the data and images generated by a broad range of instruments into 3d visualizations of the microscopic sample, allowing quantitative analysis of material properties. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into four primary techniques: ftir, raman, nir and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. laboratory elemental analysis instruments and analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. the company has entered into an agreement to acquire gatan, inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of roper technologies, inc., for approximately $925 million in cash. gatan is a leading manufacturer of instrumentation and software used to enhance and extend the operation and performance of electron microscopes. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost 7 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) efficient manner. this segment has six primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. in addition, we offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. anatomical pathology our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. these products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls. we also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. in cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented ez cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. we manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. we also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques. 8 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) on january 28, 2019, the company entered into an agreement to sell its anatomical pathology business to phc holdings corporation for approximately $1.14 billion . the sale is subject to customary closing conditions and applicable regulatory approvals. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (elisa), flow, and multiplexing technologies. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties and are primarily used in clinical diagnosis. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering, enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. the segment also includes a comprehensive offering of outsourced services used by the pharmaceutical and biotech industries for drug development, clinical trials logistics and commercial drug manufacturing. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory products, laboratory chemicals, research and safety market channel, and pharma services. laboratory products our laboratory products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: laboratory equipment technologies includes our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. we also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. in addition, we offer sample preparation and preservation equipment, which protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. we also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. water and laboratory products include water analysis instruments such as meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. we also offer other laboratory equipment such as water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory plastics essentials include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low-through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. we also offer sample preparation and storage products such as centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding and containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. additionally, our offerings include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection products, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and 9 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) containers, plastic transfer pipettes, general purpose clinical laboratory consumables and containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we also provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. laboratory chemicals our laboratory chemicals offering comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high-purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery; and precious metals, salts and solutions used in a broad range of applications where highly specific reactions are desired. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our expert sales force, segment-relevant printed collateral and digital content in five languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 1.5 million products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. pharma services we provide the entire spectrum of development, manufacturing and clinical trials services for both small-molecule and large-molecule pharmaceuticals. this includes i) development of a suitable formulation and manufacturing process for the active pharmaceutical ingredient (api) or biologic; ii) technology transfer to scale up the manufacturing; iii) labeling, packaging, distribution and logistics for clinical trials; and iv) commercial scale manufacturing and packaging. drug substance services - our service offerings address small molecules, produced through chemical synthesis, and large molecules such as antibodies and proteins produced through mammalian cell culture. we provide development and manufacturing services for small molecule apis and the biologically active component of pharmaceutical products under current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) conditions from early development through commercial production. drug product services - we manufacture both small-molecule and large-molecule products for customers in conventional and specialized dosage forms. we differentiate ourselves by our breadth of dosage forms and specialized capabilities in both oral solid and sterile dosage forms. we provide a wide spectrum of advanced formulation, production and technical services and scientific expertise and solutions, from the early stages of a product's development to regulatory approval and commercial scale production. 10 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) clinical trials services - we provide global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including comparator sourcing; specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management and biobanking services; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we have approximately 12,000 sales personnel including highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in many aspects of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. 11 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2018 and 2017 was as follows: (in millions) 2018 2017 life sciences solutions $ 647 $ 581 analytical instruments 2,243 2,050 specialty diagnostics 187 158 laboratory products and services 2,055 1,679 eliminations (45 ) (20 ) $ 5,087 $ 4,448 we believe that approximately 90% of our backlog at the end of 2018 will be filled during 2019 . government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (epa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. 12 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the u.s. environmental protection agency (usepa) to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2018, the usepa issued a record of decision, including the scope of required remediation work based on findings of this study. the company has indicated its willingness to finance and perform the required remediation work together with the other responsible parties. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $69 million at december 31, 2018 . these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have approximately 70,000 employees. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 168 third avenue, waltham, massachusetts 02451. 13 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) executive officers of the registrant name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) other positions held marc n. casper 50 president and chief executive officer (2001) chief operating officer (2008-2009) executive vice president (2006-2009) senior vice president (2003-2006) mark p. stevenson 56 executive vice president and chief operating officer (2014) executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions (2014-2017) president and chief operating officer, life technologies corporation (2008-2014) michael a. boxer 57 senior vice president and general counsel (2018) executive vice president and group general counsel, luxottica group s.p.a. (2011-2017) patrick m. durbin 52 senior vice president and president, specialty diagnostics (2015) president, biopharma services (2010-2015) gregory j. herrema 53 senior vice president and president, customer channels (2017) president, biosciences (2012-2014) michel lagarde 45 senior vice president and president, pharma services (2017) president and chief operating officer, patheon n.v. (2016-2017) managing director, jll partners* (2008-2016) stephen williamson 52 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2015) vice president, financial operations (2008-2015) peter e. hornstra 59 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) corporate controller (1996-2007) *jll partners is a private equity firm focused on healthcare. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in item 1. business under the caption "forward-looking statements". we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve. any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; 14 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; causing supply interruptions which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. economic, political, foreign currency and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the "functional currency"). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. as our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2018 , currency translation had a favorable effect of $173 million on revenues due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions, outsourcing activities and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers; 15 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) tariffs imposed by the u.s. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on u.s. goods, including the tariffs recently adopted by the u.s. government on various imports from china and by the chinese government on certain u.s. goods; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil, including terrorism and war. significant developments stemming from the u.s. administration or the u.k.'s referendum on membership in the eu could have an adverse effect on us. the u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements and is imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the united states. the administration has also indicated an intention to request congress to make significant changes, replacement or elimination of the patient protection and affordable care act, and government negotiation/regulation of drug prices paid by government programs. changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing the health care system and drug prices, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business. additionally, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the european union, or eu. this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the eu, and this uncertainty may last for years. our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. in addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the united kingdom. these possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the united kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the eu, may adversely affect our operating results and our customers' businesses. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. our pharma services offerings are highly complex, and if we are unable to provide quality and timely offerings to our customers, our business could suffer. our pharma services offerings are highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict quality and regulatory requirements. our operating results in this business depend on our ability to execute and, when necessary, improve our quality management strategy and systems, and our ability to effectively train and maintain our employee base with respect to quality management. a failure of our quality control systems could result in problems with facility operations or preparation or provision of products. in each case, such problems could arise for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors and damage to, or loss of, manufacturing operations. such problems could affect production of a particular batch or series of batches of products, requiring the destruction of such products or a halt of facility production altogether. in addition, our failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers, which in turn could damage our reputation for quality and service. any such failure could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug product, registered intermediates, registered starting materials, and active pharmaceutical ingredients, other customer claims, damage to and possibly termination of existing customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. production problems in our drug and biologic manufacturing operations could be particularly significant because the cost of raw materials for such manufacturing is often high. if problems in preparation or manufacture of a product or failures to meet required quality standards for that product are not discovered before such product is released to the market, we may be subject to adverse regulatory actions, including product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil sanctions, including monetary sanctions, and criminal actions. in addition, such problems or failures could subject us to litigation claims, including claims from our customers for reimbursement for the cost of lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, the cost of which could be significant. we are subject to product and other liability risks for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. we may be named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which may allege that products or services we have provided from our pharma services offerings have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to consumers. additionally, products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete any pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $25.35 billion and $1.27 billion , respectively, as of december 31, 2018 . in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $13.71 billion as of december 31, 2018 . we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the 17 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. we are subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the u.s. federal drug administration (the fda), the u.s. drug enforcement agency (the dea), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the u.s. department of health and human services (the dhhs), the european medicines agency (the ema), in europe, the eu member states and other comparable agencies and, in the future, any changes to such laws and regulations could adversely affect us. in particular, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning current good manufacturing practices and drug safety. our subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and may be required to comply with the laws and regulations of the dea, the fda, the dhhs, foreign agencies including the ema, and other various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. the manufacture, distribution and marketing of many of our products and services, including medical devices and pharma services, are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the fda, the dea, the ema, and other equivalent local, state, federal and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. in addition, we are subject to inspections by these regulatory authorities. failure by us or by our customers to comply with the requirements of these regulatory authorities, including without limitation, remediating any inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing or denial of pending approvals, including those relating to products or facilities. in addition, such a failure could expose us to contractual or product liability claims, contractual claims from our customers, including claims for reimbursement for lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as ongoing remediation and increased compliance costs, any or all of which could be significant. we are the sole manufacturer of a number of 18 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) pharmaceuticals for many of our customers and a negative regulatory event could impact our customers' ability to provide products to their customers. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and our business practices in the u.s. and abroad such as anti-corruption, anti-competition and privacy and data protection laws. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions at our sites. we rely upon our manufacturing operations to produce many of the products we sell and our warehouse facilities to store products, pending sale. any significant disruption of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, hurricanes or other events beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which make us susceptible to earthquake risk. although most of our raw materials are available from a number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. if we are unable to obtain the materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or violation of data privacy laws could adversely affect our business. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could disrupt our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities (such as interacting with suppliers, selling our products and services, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments, shipping products, providing services and support to customers, tracking customer activity, fulfilling contractual obligations and otherwise conducting business). our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer hackers, computer viruses, ransomware, phishing, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. any of the cyber-attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above, if significant, could materially interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer, business partner and employee relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased cost for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. if we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to global data privacy and security requirements and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business 19 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) consequences. as a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business. for example, in the united states, individual states regulate data breach and security requirements and multiple governmental bodies assert authority over aspects of the protection of personal privacy. european laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of europe, and the recently-enacted eu general data protection regulation, which took effect in may 2018, imposes significantly stricter requirements in how we collect and process personal data. several countries, such as china and russia, have passed laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $18.99 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.50 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other entities, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility (the facility) include a consolidated leverage ratio (total debt-to-consolidated ebitda) and a consolidated interest coverage ratio (consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense), as such terms are defined in the facility. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5 :1.0. the company has also agreed that so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.0 :1.0 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in euro, british pounds sterling, swiss franc, norwegian kroner, canadian dollars, japanese yen and swedish kronor. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2018 , the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2018 was $19.04 billion (see note 13 ). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2018 would increase by approximately $1.06 billion . if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2018 would decrease by approximately $0.98 billion . in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. in 2018 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements and variable-rate debt would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $43 million . currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, canadian dollars, swiss franc, norwegian kroner and danish kroner. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the "accumulated other comprehensive items" component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2018 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $0.84 billion . the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2018 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an additional unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $145 million . a 10% appreciation in year-end 2018 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $138 million . the unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2018 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $25 million on the company's net income. 40 thermo fisher scientific inc.risk factors 14 business segments and products we report our business in four segments life sciences solutions, analytical instruments, specialty diagnostics, and laboratory products and services. life sciences solutions segment through our life sciences solutions segment, we provide an extensive portfolio of reagents, instruments and consumables used in biological and medical research, discovery and production of new drugs and vaccines as well as diagnosis of disease. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, academic, and government markets. life sciences solutions includes four primary businesses biosciences, genetic sciences, clinical next-generation sequencing, and bioproduction. biosciences our biosciences business includes reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover new drugs and vaccines, and, in the case of some specific products, the diagnosis of disease. 3 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our biosciences offerings include: reagents, instruments, and consumables used for protein biology, molecular biology, sample preparation and cell imaging and analysis. the portfolio includes antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; and sequencing, detection and purification products used for high content analysis of nucleic acids. many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research. tools used for genetic engineering, amplification, quantification and analysis as well as rna isolation, including stem cell reprogramming kits, transfection reagents, rna interference reagents, along with gene editing tools and gene synthesis products. cell culture media, reagents, and plastics for preserving and growing mammalian cells which are used in many life science research applications. fluorescence-based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. these technologies include a wide range of cell analysis instruments, including flow cytometers and imaging platforms that enable fluorescence microscopy. protein analysis products, including pre-cast electrophoresis gels for separating nucleic acids and proteins, and western blotting and staining tools. genetic sciences our genetic sciences business combines a wide variety of instruments and related reagents used to provide high-value genomic solutions to assist customer decisions in the research, clinical and applied markets. our offerings include real-time pcr technology used to identify changes in gene expression, genotyping or proteins on an individual gene-by-gene basis; capillary electrophoresis (ce) sequencing, a core technology used in dna sequencing and fragment analysis and forensic analysis applications; and microarray technology, used in gene expression, genotyping and reproductive health. our genetic analyzers served as the foundational platform used to sequence the first human genome. these systems are used in a variety of basic, commercial and clinical research applications. clinical next-generation sequencing our clinical next-generation sequencing (ngs) business focuses on delivering simple, fast and cost-effective ngs technology for a range of applications. the business is focused on targeted sequencing solutions for research use and the application of ngs in oncology. bioproduction our bioproduction business supports developers and manufacturers of biological-based therapeutics and vaccines with a portfolio of premium solutions and services focused on upstream cell culture, downstream purification, analytics for detection and quantitation of process/product impurities, and a suite of single-use solutions spanning the biologics workflow. our bioproduction offerings include: single-use bioproduction solutions that provide our customers with faster turnaround and set-up times, minimal validation requirements, reduced investment and running costs, and increased flexibility of manufacturing capacity. production cell culture media solutions, which are used by leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to grow cells in controlled conditions and enable large scale cgmp (current good manufacturing practices) manufacturing of drugs and vaccines. we also provide our customers with the associated services to optimize the productivity of these production platforms. chromatography products, which deliver superior capacity and resolution for process-scale bioseparations, and offer a broad set of scalable options for the purification of antibodies, antibody fragments and proteins. rapid molecular products that deliver accurate results in less than four hours for contaminant detection, identification and quantitation. scalable solutions for the manufacture of cell therapy based drugs. 4 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) our doe &amp; ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that provide primarily life science manufacturers with reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials. analytical instruments segment through our analytical instruments segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. these products and services are used by customers in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government, environmental and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory. this segment includes three primary businesses chromatography and mass spectrometry, chemical analysis, and materials and structural analysis. chromatography and mass spectrometry our chromatography and mass spectrometry (ms) business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis across both applied technologies and life science research. these products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (lims); chromatography data systems (cds); database analytical tools; automation systems; a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns; and a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our chromeleon chromatography data system software. liquid chromatography (lc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in liquids. our high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (uhplc) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (lc/ms and lc/ms/ms). these systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial quality assurance and quality control (qa/qc). ion chromatography (ic) systems separate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. our ic products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes. gas chromatography (gc) systems analyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (gc) or with different types of mass spectrometers (gc/ms). our gc/ms offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, an orbitrap, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses. elemental analysis spectrometers use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. these products are widely used in growth markets such as china, india and latin america to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations. mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. in addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; and inorganic mass spectrometry systems; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems. life sciences mass spectrometers include triple quadrupole and orbitrap technologies. our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. they are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. our orbitrap technologies provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications. we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of instrument control and data analysis software to help customers simplify their workflows and obtain knowledge from often complex data. 5 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) inorganic mass spectrometers include four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (irms); multi-collector isotope ratio mass spectrometry (mc/irms); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp/ms); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (hr trace/ms). these products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences. chemical analysis our chemical analysis products fall into three main categories: materials and minerals instruments; field safety instruments; and environmental and process instruments. customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials to optimize workflows primarily in industrial applications or to help them comply with governmental regulations and industry safety standards. our product lines range from those used on production lines to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time chemical identification in the field or to analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations. materials and minerals instruments include production line process monitoring, and control systems for a range of industrial applications. for example, we offer on-line instruments that analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time to improve quality control and ensure safe operation in a mine or cement manufacturing plant, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. we also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass. we also offer on-line analyzers based on a variety of technologies such as x-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on-line and at high speeds in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. field safety instruments are rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. our main product categories are elemental analyzers, optical analyzers and radiation detection instruments. our portable elemental analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf) technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; qa/qc; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. our portable optical analyzers utilize raman, fourier transform infrared (ftir) and near-infrared (nir) technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. other applications include qa/qc in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs. our radiation measurement products are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. these products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets. environmental and process instruments include fixed and portable instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment as well as comply with government regulations and industry safety standards. our products are used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, and stack gas emissions for compliance with regulated emissions standards for criteria pollutant gases. our products are also used in ambient particulate monitoring applications by customers in mining environments to provide continuous measurements and logging of real-time concentrations and median particle sizes of airborne dust, smoke, mist and fumes to improve efficiency and increase worker safety. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers, including equipment servicing, instrument calibration services, asset management and training. materials and structural analysis our materials and structural analysis business includes electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy and laboratory elemental analysis instruments that are used by customers in life sciences, materials sciences and industrial markets to accelerate breakthrough discoveries. electron microscopy instruments include transmission electron microscopes which provide imaging and characterization at the atomic scale, with applications in semiconductor development, materials science research and the characterization of protein structure and function. we also offer scanning electron microscopes which resolve features from the optical regime down to the nanometer length scale and are used for a wide variety of applications from materials characterization in science and engineering to applications in natural resources, manufacturing, and biological systems. our dualbeam focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope systems are used for sample 6 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) preparation, 3d characterization, nanoprototyping, and industrial failure analysis. our focused ion beam microscopes are used in a range of process control, failure analysis, and materials research applications. we also offer electrical failure analysis instruments which are used in root cause failure analysis and quality control, microct instruments which are micro-computed tomography solutions for quantitative analysis of a broad range of materials, providing 3d visualization of large volumes non-destructively and 3d visualization software that turns the data and images generated by a broad range of instruments into 3d visualizations of the microscopic sample, allowing quantitative analysis of material properties. molecular spectroscopy instruments are divided into four primary techniques: ftir, raman, nir and ultraviolet/visible (uv/vis) spectroscopy. these technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. our material characterization instruments include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. we also provide a range of surface analysis instruments commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool. laboratory elemental analysis instruments and analyzers use x-ray fluorescence (xrf), x-ray diffraction (xrd), and arc spark optical emission (oes) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. specialty diagnostics segment our specialty diagnostics segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. this segment has five primary businesses clinical diagnostics, immunodiagnostics, microbiology, transplant diagnostics and our healthcare market channel. in june 2019, the company sold its anatomical pathology business, previously reported in this segment. the business offered products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. clinical diagnostics our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. in particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. we also private label many of our reagents and controls for major in vitro diagnostics companies through oem arrangements. in many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms. we have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. we also provide a broad offering of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers. our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. we also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening. immunodiagnostics our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. in addition, we offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. our products include immunocap for allergy and asthma tests and elia for autoimmunity tests. microbiology our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. our products help customers worldwide to diagnose 7 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities. within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry. transplant diagnostics our transplant diagnostics products include human leukocyte antigen (hla) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. these transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of hla typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (elisa), flow, and multiplexing technologies. healthcare market channel our healthcare market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians' offices and other clinical testing facilities. these products are manufactured by thermo fisher and third parties and are primarily used in clinical diagnosis. laboratory products and services segment our laboratory products and services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering, enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. the segment also includes a comprehensive offering of outsourced services used by the pharmaceutical and biotech industries for drug development, clinical trials logistics and commercial drug manufacturing. we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: laboratory products, laboratory chemicals, research and safety market channel, and pharma services. laboratory products our laboratory products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. this offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis: laboratory equipment technologies includes our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks for maintaining samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation. we also offer temperature control products such as heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications. in addition, we offer sample preparation and preservation equipment, which protects our customers' chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity as well as incubators and related products. we also offer centrifugation products, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials, including microcentrifuges, general use bench-top centrifuges and floor models. additionally, we offer biological safety cabinets, which enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. water and laboratory products include water analysis instruments such as meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of ph, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. we also offer other laboratory equipment such as water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products. laboratory plastics essentials include a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low-through high-throughput activity. these products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. we also offer sample preparation and storage products such as centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low dna binding and containers for packaging 8 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. additionally, our offerings include a complete selection of clinical specimen collection products, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers, plastic transfer pipettes, general purpose clinical laboratory consumables and containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. we also provide oem and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits. laboratory chemicals our laboratory chemicals offering comprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. this portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high-purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery; and precious metals, salts and solutions used in a broad range of applications where highly specific reactions are desired. we provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging. research and safety market channel our research and safety market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. we go to market through our expert sales force, segment-relevant printed collateral and digital content in five languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 1.5 million products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. we have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. with specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems that offer automated catalog search, product order and invoicing, and payment capabilities. our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by thermo fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. we also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis. our research products include a complete offering of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the k-12 and secondary education market. in addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our unity lab services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel. we also offer scientific support services including desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. pharma services we provide the entire spectrum of development, manufacturing and clinical trials services for both small-molecule and large-molecule pharmaceuticals. this includes i) development of a suitable formulation and manufacturing process for the active pharmaceutical ingredient (api) or biologic; ii) technology transfer to scale up the manufacturing; iii) labeling, packaging, distribution and logistics for clinical trials; and iv) commercial scale manufacturing and packaging. drug substance services - our service offerings address small molecules, produced through chemical synthesis, and large molecules such as antibodies and proteins produced through mammalian cell culture. we provide development and manufacturing services for small molecule apis and the biologically active component of pharmaceutical products under current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) conditions from early development through commercial production. drug product services - we manufacture both small-molecule and large-molecule products for customers in conventional and specialized dosage forms. we differentiate ourselves by our breadth of dosage forms and specialized 9 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) capabilities in both oral solid and sterile dosage forms. we provide a wide spectrum of advanced formulation, production and technical services and scientific expertise and solutions, from the early stages of a product's development to regulatory approval and commercial scale production. clinical trials services - we provide global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including comparator sourcing; specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase i through phase iv clinical trials; biological-specimen management and biobanking services; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain planning and management. viral vector services - we provide a full-range of viral vector development and manufacturing services for customers developing and commercializing gene and cell therapies, including process development, optimization, scale-up, analytical development and qualification of viral vectors for commercial manufacturing. our breadth of vector platform includes the five most widely used virus types, providing extensive coverage across the gene and cell therapy landscape. sales and marketing we market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs. we offer our products and services through leading brands including: the thermo scientific brand offers customers in research, diagnostics, industrial, and applied markets a complete range of high-end analytical instruments as well as laboratory equipment, software, services, consumables and reagents. our portfolio of products includes innovative technologies for mass spectrometry, chromatography, elemental analysis, electron microscopy, molecular spectroscopy, sample preparation, informatics, chemical research and analysis, cell culture, bioprocess production, cellular, protein and molecular biology research, allergy testing, drugs-of-abuse testing, therapeutic drug monitoring testing, microbiology, as well as environmental monitoring and process control. the applied biosystems brand offers customers in research, clinical and applied markets integrated instrument systems, reagents, and software for genetic analysis. our portfolio includes innovative technologies for genetic sequencing and real-time, digital and end point polymerase chain reaction (pcr), that are used to determine meaningful genetic information in applications such as cancer diagnostics, human identification testing, and animal health, as well as inherited and infectious disease. the invitrogen brand offers life science customers a broad range of consumables and instruments that accelerate research and ensure consistency of results. our portfolio of products includes innovative solutions for cellular analysis and biology, flow cytometry, cell culture, protein expression, synthetic biology, molecular biology and protein biology. fisher scientific is our channels brand, offering customers a complete portfolio of laboratory equipment and consumables, chemicals, supplies and services used in scientific research, healthcare, safety, and education markets. these products are offered through an extensive network of direct sales professionals, segment-relevant printed collateral and digital content, a state-of-the-art website, and supply-chain management services. unity lab services is our instrument and equipment services brand, offering a complete portfolio of services from enterprise level engagements to individual instruments and laboratory equipment, regardless of the original manufacturer. through our network of world-class service and support personnel, we provide services that are designed to help our customers improve productivity, reduce costs, and drive decisions with better data. patheon is our contract development and manufacturing brand, representing the comprehensive offering of services that we provide to customers ranging from small biotech to large pharmaceutical companies. we support our customers' development of innovative medicines, including biologics, gene therapies and vaccines. by leveraging our expanding global network of facilities, we deliver high-quality services at all stages of the drug lifecycle, from discovery to development through clinical trials and commercial manufacturing. we have approximately 13,000 sales personnel including highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. we also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs. 10 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) new products and research and development our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. we anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. raw materials our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. we do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. raw material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. we employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results. patents, licenses and trademarks patents are important in many aspects of our business. no particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel that are incorporated into our products or otherwise fall within our fields of interest. patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts. we protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. we also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how. seasonal influences revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's flu season. sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of each period's airborne pollen allergens. working capital requirements there are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. dependency on a single customer there is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. no customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years. backlog our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2019 and 2018 was as follows: (in millions) 2019 2018 life sciences solutions $ 893 $ 647 analytical instruments 2,198 2,243 specialty diagnostics 172 187 laboratory products and services 4,577 2,042 eliminations (72) (32) $ 7,768 $ 5,087 we believe that approximately 63% of our backlog at the end of 2019 will be filled during 2020. government contracts although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. 11 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) competition the company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. competitive climates in many of the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. our success primarily depends on the following factors: technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios; product differentiation, availability and reliability; the depth of our capabilities; our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services; customer service and support; active research and application-development programs; and relative prices of our products and services. environmental matters we are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the united states and other countries. u.s. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the toxic substances control act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (cercla). we are also subject to regulation by the occupational safety and health administration (osha) concerning employee safety and health matters. the united states environmental protection agency (usepa), osha, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. a number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. for historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures. our fair lawn and somerville, new jersey facilities entered into administrative consent orders with the new jersey department of environmental protection in 1984 to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites, and are currently under the state's licensed site remediation professional program. as the owner of the fair lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the fair lawn wellfields superfund site, and, in 2008, the company and certain other parties entered into a consent order with the usepa to complete a remedial investigation/feasibility study. in 2018, the usepa issued a record of decision, including the scope of required remediation work based on findings of this study. in 2019, the company and another responsible party signed a proposed consent decree that, once approved by the court, requires the parties to finance and perform the required remediation work with usepa oversight. in 2011, our life technologies subsidiary entered into a consent decree with the usepa and other responsible parties to implement a groundwater remedy at the former davis landfill superfund site in smithfield, rhode island. we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. we calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management's knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. we include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $66 million at december 31, 2019. these environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. we believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. as a result we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of 12 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) operations or cash flows. however, we may be subject to remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulatory affairs our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the food and drug administration, the drug enforcement administration, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. as thermo fisher's businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the u.s. departments of commerce, state and treasury. in addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the department of transportation, the federal aviation administration and similar foreign agencies. while we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. to date, none has had a material impact on our operations. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. number of employees we have more than 75,000 employees. available information the company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the securities and exchange commission (sec) under the exchange act. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. in addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its investor relations department at our principal executive office located at 168 third avenue, waltham, massachusetts 02451. 13 thermo fisher scientific inc. business (continued) information about our executive officers name age present title (fiscal year first became executive officer) other positions held marc n. casper 51 chairman, president and chief executive officer (2001) president and chief executive officer (2009-2020) chief operating officer (2008-2009) executive vice president (2006-2009) mark p. stevenson 57 executive vice president and chief operating officer (2014) executive vice president and president, life sciences solutions (2014-2017) president and chief operating officer, life technologies corporation (2008-2014) michel lagarde 46 executive vice president (2017) senior vice president and president, pharma services (2017-2019) president and chief operating officer, patheon n.v. (2016-2017) managing director, jll partners* (2008-2016) michael a. boxer 58 senior vice president and general counsel (2018) executive vice president and group general counsel, luxottica group s.p.a. (2011-2017) syed a. jafry 56 senior vice president and president, regions (2019) senior vice president, asia-pacific and emerging markets (2011-2017) stephen williamson 53 senior vice president and chief financial officer (2015) vice president, financial operations (2008-2015) peter e. hornstra 60 vice president and chief accounting officer (2001) corporate controller (1996-2007) *jll partners is a private equity firm focused on healthcare. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. this section contains forward-looking statements. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in item 1. business under the caption forward-looking statements . we must develop new products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of new products by competitors to remain competitive. our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. we sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. competitive factors include technological innovation, price, service and delivery, breadth of product line, customer support, e-business capabilities and the ability to meet the special requirements of customers. our competitors may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements than we can. without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. many of our existing products and those under development are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. our customers use many of our products to develop, test and manufacture their own products. as a result, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. if we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving internal growth. our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve. any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including: strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; expanding our service offerings; 14 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) continuing key customer initiatives; combining sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more effectively; finding new markets for our products; and continuing the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our depth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. our business is affected by general economic conditions, both inside and outside the u.s. if the global economy and financial markets, or economic conditions in europe, the u.s. or other key markets, are unstable, it could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers, having the effect of reducing demand for some of our products; increasing the rate of order cancellations or delays; increasing the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing pressure on the prices for our products and services; causing supply interruptions which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; and creating longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting sales proceeds. our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve. any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements. certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. demand for some of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. spending by some of these customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. an impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. economic, political, foreign currency and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. international markets contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in these regions. the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. international revenues and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and profitability when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. these fluctuations could also adversely affect the demand for products and services provided by us. as a multinational corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of operations. as our international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a larger effect on our financial results. in 2019, currency translation had an unfavorable effect of $440 million on revenues due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which the company sells products and services. in addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions, outsourcing activities and manufacturing facilities are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers; 15 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) tariffs imposed by the u.s. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on u.s. goods, including the tariffs recently adopted by the u.s. government on various imports from china and by the chinese government on certain u.s. goods; the impact of public health epidemics on the global economy, such as the coronavirus currently impacting china; negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil, including terrorism and war. for example, on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom formally withdrew from the european union, or eu and entered a transition period during which it will negotiate a trade deal with the eu. this withdrawal has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the eu, and this uncertainty may last for years. our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu. in addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the united kingdom. these possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu, may adversely affect our operating results and our customers' businesses. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent protection for our products both in the united states and in other countries. we own numerous u.s. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. in addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position. we could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. an unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. third parties may assert claims against us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. in the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. however, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. for example, we manufacture pharmaceuticals and many of our instruments are marketed to the 16 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) pharmaceutical industry for use in discovering and developing drugs. changes in the u.s. food and drug administration's regulation of the drug discovery and development process could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. our pharma services offerings are highly complex, and if we are unable to provide quality and timely offerings to our customers, our business could suffer. our pharma services offerings are highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict quality and regulatory requirements. our operating results in this business depend on our ability to execute and, when necessary, improve our quality management strategy and systems, and our ability to effectively train and maintain our employee base with respect to quality management. a failure of our quality control systems could result in problems with facility operations or preparation or provision of products. in each case, such problems could arise for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors and damage to, or loss of, manufacturing operations. such problems could affect production of a particular batch or series of batches of products, requiring the destruction of such products or a halt of facility production altogether. in addition, our failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers, which in turn could damage our reputation for quality and service. any such failure could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug product, registered intermediates, registered starting materials, and active pharmaceutical ingredients, other customer claims, damage to and possibly termination of existing customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. production problems in our drug and biologic manufacturing operations could be particularly significant because the cost of raw materials for such manufacturing is often high. if problems in preparation or manufacture of a product or failures to meet required quality standards for that product are not discovered before such product is released to the market, we may be subject to adverse regulatory actions, including product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil sanctions, including monetary sanctions, and criminal actions. in addition, such problems or failures could subject us to litigation claims, including claims from our customers for reimbursement for the cost of lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, the cost of which could be significant. we are subject to product and other liability risks for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. we may be named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which may allege that products or services we have provided from our pharma services offerings have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to consumers. additionally, products currently or previously sold by our environmental and process instruments and radiation measurement and security instruments businesses include fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace explosives detection. these products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. if any of these products were to malfunction, it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could fail to be detected by our product, which could lead to product liability claims. there are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customers' operators and the training of such operators. any such product liability claims brought against us could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all. our inability to complete any pending acquisitions or to successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. certain acquisitions may be difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including the need for antitrust and/or other regulatory approvals. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. moreover, we have acquired many companies and businesses. as a result of these acquisitions, we recorded significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily tradenames) on our balance sheet, which amount to approximately $25.71 billion and $1.25 billion, respectively, as of december 31, 2019. in addition, we have definite-lived intangible assets totaling $12.76 billion as of december 31, 2019. we assess the realizability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. we assess the realizability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. these events or circumstances would generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. these cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. 17 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. we have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. the laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. we are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. a failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment. because we compete directly with certain of our larger customers and product suppliers, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with us. our largest customer in the laboratory products business is also a significant competitor. our business may be harmed in the short term if our competitive relationship in the marketplace with certain of our large customers results in a discontinuation of their purchases from us. in addition, we manufacture products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party suppliers. we also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. our business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us. because we rely heavily on third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such as federal express in the u.s. and dhl in europe. we also maintain a small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could be adversely affected. in addition, if one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. we are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations, and are subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign agencies. we are subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the u.s. federal drug administration (the fda), the u.s. drug enforcement agency (the dea), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the u.s. department of health and human services (the dhhs), the european medicines agency (the ema), in europe, the eu member states and other comparable agencies and, in the future, any changes to such laws and regulations could adversely affect us. in particular, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning current good manufacturing practices and drug safety. our subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and may be required to comply with the laws and regulations of the dea, the fda, the dhhs, foreign agencies including the ema, and other various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. the manufacture, distribution and marketing of many of our products and services, including medical devices and pharma services, are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the fda, the dea, the ema, and other equivalent local, state, federal and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. in addition, we are subject to inspections by these regulatory authorities. failure by us or by our customers to comply with the requirements of these regulatory authorities, including without limitation, remediating any inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing or denial of pending approvals, including those relating to products or facilities. in addition, such a failure could expose us to contractual or product liability claims, contractual claims from our customers, including claims for reimbursement for lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as ongoing remediation and increased compliance costs, any or all of which could be significant. we are the sole manufacturer of a number of pharmaceuticals for many of our customers and a negative regulatory event could impact our customers' ability to provide products to their customers. we are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the handling, transportation and manufacture of substances that could be classified as hazardous, and we are required to 18 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies. in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could result in criminal, civil and administrative penalties and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we have internal controls and compliance systems to protect the company against acts committed by employees, agents or businesses that we acquire that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy, but we cannot provide assurance that these controls and systems will prevent every such wrongful act. in particular, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the united states and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and nonmonetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for violations committed by companies which we acquire. we also rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct, and material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our business, reputation and financial statements. natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may disrupt our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend, and could impact customer spending. we have significant operations in california, near major earthquake faults, which make us susceptible to earthquake risk. an earthquake or other natural disaster such as a fire or hurricane or power shortages or outages could disrupt our operations or impair our critical systems. any of these disruptions or other events outside of our control, such as strikes or other labor unrest, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, if any of our facilities, including our manufacturing or warehouse facilities, or the facilities of our suppliers, third-party service providers, or customers, is affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, power shortages or outages, floods or monsoons, public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, political crises, such as terrorism, war, political instability or other conflict, or other events outside of our control, such as strikes or other labor unrest, our results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, these types of events could negatively impact customer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally, which could also adversely impact our operating results. for example, in december 2019, a strain of coronavirus surfaced in wuhan, china which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the effects could include restrictions on our ability to travel to support our sites in china or our customers located there, disruptions in our ability to distribute products, and/or temporary closures of our facilities in china or the facilities of our suppliers or customers. related disruption, inside or outside of china, to our operations or the operations of our suppliers or customers would likely impact our sales and operating results. at this point, the extent to which the coronavirus may impact our results of operations is uncertain. fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. as a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. in preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax that is payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. our primary commodity exposures are for fuel, petroleum-based resins and steel. while we may seek to minimize the impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs. our reliance upon sole or limited sources of supply for certain materials or components could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. some of our businesses purchase certain materials from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, regulatory requirements, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design. if 19 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes. any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies. a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or violation of data privacy laws could adversely affect our business. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we periodically implement new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could disrupt our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate pricing and cost data our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities (such as interacting with suppliers, selling our products and services, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments, shipping products, providing services and support to customers, tracking customer activity, fulfilling contractual obligations and otherwise conducting business). our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer hackers, computer viruses, ransomware, phishing, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. any of the cyber-attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above, if significant, could materially interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer, business partner and employee relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased cost for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. if we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to global data privacy and security requirements and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. as a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business. for example, in the united states, individual states regulate data breach and security requirements and multiple governmental bodies assert authority over aspects of the protection of personal privacy. european laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of europe, and the eu general data protection regulation imposes significantly stricter requirements in how we collect and process personal data. several countries, such as china and russia, have passed laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. our debt may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $17.75 billion in outstanding indebtedness. in addition, we have availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility that provides for up to $2.50 billion of unsecured multi-currency revolving credit. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. our ability to make scheduled payments, refinance our obligations or obtain additional financing will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations. if we are unable to service our debt, refinance our existing debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. 20 thermo fisher scientific inc. risk factors (continued) additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other entities, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. the covenants in our revolving credit facility (the facility) include a consolidated leverage ratio (total debt-to-consolidated ebitda) and a consolidated interest coverage ratio (consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense), as such terms are defined in the facility. specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5:1.0. the company has also agreed that so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, it will maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.0:1.0 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under certain of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. the company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. the currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in swiss franc, euro, canadian dollars, swedish kronor, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and czech koruna. income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. the company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements. interest rates the company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company's debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2019, the company's debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. the fair market value of the company's fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the total estimated fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2019 was $18.67 billion (see note 14). fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. if interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2019 would increase by approximately $1.49 billion. if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company's debt at december 31, 2019 would decrease by approximately $1.50 billion. in addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company's interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. in 2019, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements and variable-rate debt would have increased the company's annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $16 million. currency exchange rates the company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar as permanent. the company's investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the functional currencies of the company's international subsidiaries are principally denominated in british pounds sterling, swedish kronor, euro, canadian dollars, swiss franc, norwegian kroner and danish kroner. the effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company's net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive items component of shareholders' equity. the company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2019 functional currencies, relative to the u.s. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders' equity of $1.14 billion. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. the fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in year-end 2019 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an additional unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $243 million. a 10% appreciation in year-end 2019 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company's contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $203 million. the 33 thermo fisher scientific inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged. certain of the company's cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. a 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2019 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $32 million on the company's net income.